**2021年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试（新高考全国**II**卷）**

**英 语**

**本试卷共11页，共100分．考试时长90分钟．**

**考生务必在答题卡指定区域作答，在试卷上作答无效．**

**考试结束后，将本试卷和答题卡一并交回．**

**第一部分 听力（共两节，满分30分）**

做题时，先将答案标在试卷上。录音内容结束后，你将有两分钟的时间将试卷上的答案转涂到答题卡上。

第一节（共5小题；每小题1.5分，满分7.5分）

听下面5段对话。每段对话后有一个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听完每段对话后，你都有10秒钟的时间来回答有关小题和阅读下一小题。每段对话仅读一遍。

例：How much is the shirt?

A. £19.15. B. £9.18. C. £9.15.

答案是C。

1\. Why did the woman go to Mallorca?

A. To teach Spanish. B. To look for a job. C. To see a friend.

2\. What does the man ask the woman to do?

A. Take him to hospital. B. Go to a class with him. C. Submit a report for him.

3\. Who will look after the children?

A. Jennifer. B. Suzy. C. Marie.

4\. What are the speakers going to do?

A. Drive home. B. Go shopping C. Eat out.

5\. What are the speakers talking about?

A. How to fry fish. B. How to make cofree. C. How to remove a bad smell.

**第二节（共15小题；每小题1.5分，满分22.5分）**

**听下面5段对话或独白。每段对话或独白后有几个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听每段对话或独白前，你将有时间阅读各个小题，每小题5秒钟；听完后，各小题将给出5秒钟的作答时间。每段对话或独白读两遍。**

听第6段材料，回答第6、7题。

6\. When does Gomez watch a football game on TV?

A. When he fails to get a ticket. B. When the stadium is crowded. C. When his friends are too busy.

7\. How much did Gomez pay for the football game last time?

A. \$20. B. \$25. C. \$50.

听第7段材料，回答第8至10题。

8\. What did Alex do in the afternoon?

A. He had a walk. B. He went hunting. C. He planted trees.

9\. What did Alex bring back?

A. Flowers. B. Leaves. C. Books.

10\. What was Bob doing when Alex saw him?

A. Fishing. B. Taking pictures. C. Swimming.

听第8段材料，回答第11至13题。

11\. What did David do on his most recent holiday?

A. He had a boat trip. B. He took a balloon flight. C. He climbed a mountain.

12\. What is on David's list?

A. Gifts he needed to buy. B. Things he wished to do. C. Dates he had to remember.

13\. Where does the woman suggest David go for his next holiday?

A. Australia. B. California. C. The Amazon.

听第9段材料，回答第14至17题。

14\. Why did Sarah make the phone call?

A. To ask a favor. B. To pass on a message. C. To make an appointment.

15\. Where is Sarah now?

A. In Brighton. B. At her home. C. At the Shelton Hotel.

16\. What time is Michael leaving his place tomorrow morning?

A. At 7：40. B. At 8：00. C. At 8：20.

17\. What is the probable relationship between John and Sarah?

A. Neighbors. B. Fellow workers. C. Husband and wife.

听第10段材料，回答第18至20题。

18\. What do most people think is very important in spoken communication?

A. Pronunciation. B. Vocabulary. C. Grammar.

19\. Why should you listen to experts according to the speaker?

A. To develop your reading fluency.

B. To improve your note-taking skills.

C. To find out your mispronunciations.

20\. What is the speaker's last suggestion?

A. Spell out the difficult words. B. Check the words in a dictionary. C. Practice reading the words aloud.

听力答案：CCBAC ABABA CBCAB ABBCC

听力原文：

**Text 1**

W: I was in Mallorca last week.

M: Oh, what were you doing there？

W: My best friend worked there and I went to visit her. It was a good chance to practice my Spanish.

**Text 2 **

M: Ruth, I've got this terrible cold, and I have to see a doctor. I'm afraid I can't go to the class. Could you help me hand in my lab report to Dr Davidson?

W: Sure, no problem. Just take care of yourself and don't worry about the class.

**Text 3**

M: Marie, if no one takes care of your children while you're away, Jennifer and I will be glad to have them stay with us.

W: That's very kind of you, but they've already left for their grandma’s.You know, Suzy lives close by.

**Text 4**

M: Hurry up with your food, Sally. They say there's a big storm coming. We'd better get home before that.

W: Okay, I'm done. Let's get back to the car. Could you carry these shopping bags?

M: Oh, sure. 

**Text 5**

M: We deep fried fish three days ago in the kitchen, but the unpleasant smell stays.

W: There's a method you can try. Every time you make coffee, dry the leftover coffee grounds and keep them in small balls, then place the balls in the kitchen.

**Text 6**

W: Are you a football fan, Gomez?

M: Yes, I go to the stadium whenever there's a good game. And if I can't get a ticket, I watched the game on TV. That way they are less exciting, though. 

W: Is the ticket expensive?

M: It depends. It usually costs about twenty to fifty dollars. Last time I paid twenty five.

W: That's not very expensive. Maybe we can go together sometime.

M: Great. It'll be more fun to watch the game with a friend.

**Text 7**

W: You were out the whole afternoon, Alex, what did you do?

M: I took a walk by myself.

W: You just kept walking and walking for four hours?

M: Actually, it's not so boring. Walking in the woods is a grand adventure. Your feet can take you to the most amazing places.

W: What did you do in the woods?

M: I smelt the flowers, looked at the birds, and yeah, I picked many tree leaves. I will make bookmarks with them. Look!

W: Aren't they beautiful? 

M: Then I met Bob at the lake. He was fishing while his kids were having a swim.

W: Did you talk to him?

M: No, I walked on and took a lot of pictures. There's just so much out there to see.

**Text 8**

W: David, how was your holiday?

M: Great. I climbed Mount Fuji. It was really beautiful. Now I can check one more thing off my list.

W: Your list?

M: Yes. When I was twelve, I made a list of things I wanted to do some day.

W: That's interesting. How many of the things on your list have you done so far?

M: Almost half. I have pictures. Would you like to see them?

W: Yes, sure. 

M: Here I am on top of Mount Fuji, and here I am in a hot air balloon.

W: When did you do that? I've always wanted to go up in a hot air balloon.

M: It was two years ago, in August in California.

W: What are your plans for the next holiday?

M: I'm thinking of deep sea diving in Australia. Do you have any other suggestions? 

W: You really ought to take a boat down the Amazon. You'll see a lot of interesting animals and beautiful trees. It's one of the best places I've been to.

M: Okay, I'll put it on my list.

**Text 9**

W: Hello, Michael！ 

M: Hi, Sarah！

W: Are you attending the conference tomorrow morning at the Shelton Hotel?

M: Yes, are you?

W: Yeah. but when I arrived home five minutes ago, I found that my car wouldn't start. And John is in Brighton on business,

M: Do you know what's wrong with the car? 

W: I'm not exactly sure. I think there's a problem with the engine. I wonder if you could give me a ride to the hotel tomorrow morning.

M: Sure, when shall I be at your place?

W: Well, what about eight o'clock? From my place to Shelton, we have to drive through the quarters, so we'd better leave early to avoid the traffic.

M: Okay, no problem, it takes twenty minutes to reach your place, so I'll set off at seven forty. By the way, do you also need me to drive you home tomorrow afternoon?

W: No, John will be back then, and he'll get me home. Thank you, Michael.

M: That's okay. See you tomorrow.

**Text 10**

Hello, everyone. Today I’ll talk about how to improve your pronunciation. Language researchers say pronunciation and fluency are the biggest barriers, followed by grammar in effective spoken English. However, most people don't regard pronunciation as a very important part of communication skills. They're more focused on vocabulary. One reason is that most people are not even aware of their mispronunciations. So it's important to first find out the words you miss pronounce. You should listen to experts. By experts, I mean those who are less likely to make pronunciation mistakes. When listening to them, pay attention to words that sound strange. Strange,because you pronounce the same words differently. When you come across such words, check a dictionary to confirm their exact pronunciations. You can also search for difficult-to-pronounce words and names and make a list of them. The last suggestion is to read aloud. Now you've got the correct pronunciations of the words. It's time to practice reading them every day.

**第二部分 阅读（共两节，满分50分）**

第一节（共15小题；每小题2.5分，满分37.5分）

阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出最佳选项。

A

Things to Do in Yorkshire This Summer

Harrogate Music Festival

Since its birth,Harrogate Music Festival has gone from strength to strength.This year, we are celebrating our 50th anniversary. We begin on 1st June with Manchester Camerata and Nicola Benedetti,presenting an amazing programme of Mozart pieces.

Dates:1 June-31 July

Tickets:£12-£96

Jodie's Fitness Summer Classes

As the summer months roll in, our Georgian country estate makes the perfect setting for an outdoor fitness session. Come and work out with our qualified personal trainer, Jodie McGregor,on the grounds of the Middleton Lodge estate.

We will be holding a free taster session on 23rd May,at 10 am, to demonstrate the variety of effective and active exercises. There are eight spaces available for the taster session. Advance bookings are required(info@middletonlodge.co.uk.paris)

Dates:23 May-11 July

Tickets: £7.50 per session

Felt Picture Making

Working from an inspirational picture,this workshop at Helmsley Arts Centre will teach you the techniques you will need to recreate your picture in wool.

We will also discuss the origins of felt（毛毡），what enables wool fibres to become felt and how the processes we use work.

Dates: 12 June-12 July

Tickets: £40 including materials

Figure It Out!-Playing with Math

A new exhibition in Halifax uses everyday activities to explain the hidden math principles we all use on a regular basis. Pack a bag, cut a cake, guess which juice container holds the most liquid,and much more.Discover how architects, product designers and scientists use similar skills in their work.

Dates:7 May-10 June

Tickets:Free

21.What should you do if you want to attend the taster session of Jodie's fitness classes?

A. Join a fitness club. B.Pay a registration fee.

C.Make a booking. D.Hire a personal trainer.

22\. How much is the ticket for Felt Picture Making?

A.£7.50. B.£12. C.£40. D.£96.

23.Which of the following starts earliest?

A.Harrogate Music Festival. B. Jodie's Fitness Summer Classes.

C.Felt Picture Making. D.Figure It Out!-Playing with Math.

A\[语篇导读\]这是一篇应用文。主要介绍了今年夏天在约克郡要举办的四个活动。

21\. C。直接信息题。根据题干attendthe taster session of Jodie’s fitness classe定位到Jodie's Fitness Summer Classes部分中Advance bookings arerequired (info@middletonlodge.co.uk.paris)）需要提前预订请登录info@middletonlodge.co.uk.paris）可知，如果你想参加Jodie的健身课程，你应该预约。故选C项。

22\. C。直接信息题。根据题干How muchis the ticket for Felt Picture Making定位到Felt Picture Making部分中的Tickets: £40 including materials可知，FeltPicture Making的门票（含材料）需要40英镑。故选C项。

23\. D。间接信息题。根据文章内容可知，Harrogate MusicFestival部分中的Dates:1 June-31 July；Jodie's Fitness Summer Classes部分中的从Dates:23May-11 July；Felt Picture Making部分中的Dates: 12 June-12 July；FigureIt Out!-Playing with Math部分中的Dates:7 May-10 June，可知FigureIt Out!-Playing with Math最早开始。故选D项。

◎读后知识积累：anniversary  /ˌænɪˈvɜːsəri/ n. 周年纪念日；rollin蜂拥而来；到达；estate /ɪˈsteɪt/ n. 房地产；财产。

B

I have worked as a keeper at the National Zoo.paris for 11 years. Spot and Stripe are the first tiger cubs（幼兽）that have ever been born here. Globally， a third of Sumatran cubs in zoos don't make it to adulthood, so I decided to give them round-the-clock care at home.

I've got two children - the younger one, Kynan, was extremely happy about the tigers arriving - but all of us really looked forward to being part of their lives and watching them grow. I wasn't worried about bringing them into my home with my wife and kids. These were cubs. They weighed about 2.5 kg and were so small that there was absolutely no risk.

As they grew more mobile, we let them move freely around the house during the day, but when we were asleep we had to contain them in a large room, otherwise they'd get up to mischief. We'd come down in the morning to find they'd turned the room upside down, and left it looking like a zoo.

Things quickly got very intense due to the huge amount of energy required to look after them. There were some tough times and I just felt extremely tired. I was grateful that my family was there to help. We had to have a bit of a production line going, making up “tiger milk”, washing baby bottles, and cleaning the floors.

When Spot and Stripe were four months old, they were learning how to open doors and jump fences, and we knew it really was time for them to go. It was hard for us to finally part with them. For the first few days, Kynan was always a bit disappointed that the cubs weren't there.

I'm not sad about it. I'm hands-on with them every day at the zoo, and I do look back very fondly on the time that we had them.

24.Why did the author bring the tiger cubs home?

A.To ensure their survival. B. To observe their differences.

C.To teach them life skills. D.To let them play with his kids.

25\. What do the underlined words “get up to mischief' mean in paragraph 3?

A.Behave badly. B.Lose their way.

C.Sleep soundly. D.Miss their mom.

26.What did the author think of raising the tiger cubs at home?

A.Boring. B.Tiring. C.Costly. D.Risky.

27.Why did the author decide to send Spot and Stripe back to the zoo?

A.They frightened the children. B.They became difficult to contain.

C.They annoyed the neighbours. D.They started fighting each other.

B\[语篇解读\]这是一篇记叙文。讲述了作者为了保护两只老虎幼崽的存活，决定在家里全天候照顾它们。

24\. A。直接信息题。根据题干定位到第一段中的Globally, a third of Sumatran cubs in zoos don't make it toadulthood, so I decided to give them round-the-clock care at home(在全球范围内，动物园里三分之一的苏门答腊老虎幼崽活不到成年，所以我决定在家里全天候照顾它们)，理解可知，作者把老虎幼崽带回家是为了确保他们的存活。故选A项。

25\. A。词句猜测题。根据画线词上文As they grew moremobile, we let them move freely around the house during the day, but when wewere asleep we had to contain them in a large room, otherwise they’d ...（随着它们的活动越来越多，我们白天让它们在房子里自由活动，但当我们睡觉时，我们必须把它们关在一个大房间里，否则它们会……）以及后文We’dcome down in the morning to find they'd turned the room upside down, and leftit looking like a zoo（我们早上下楼时发现他们把房间弄得乱七八糟，让它看起来像个动物园）可知，作者不得不把老虎们关在一个大房间里，否则它们就会调皮捣蛋，表现不好。早上下楼时发现他们把房间弄得乱七八糟，看起来像个动物园。故画线词意思是“表现不好”。故选A项。

26\. B。观点态度题。根据题干定位到第三段中Things quickly got very intense due to the hugeamount of energy required to look after them. There were some tough times and Ijust felt extremely tired（由于需要大量的精力来照顾它们，事情很快变得非常紧张。有一段艰难的日子，我只是觉得非常累），理解可知，作者认为在家里养小老虎累人。故选B项。

27.B。间接信息题。根据题干定位到倒数第二段中When Spot andStripe were four months old, they were learning how to open doors and jumpfences, and we knew it really was time for them to go（当Spot和Stripe四个月大的时候，他们正在学习如何开门和跳栅栏，我们知道是时候让他们离开了），理解可知，作者决定把Spot和Stripe送回动物园是因为他们变得难以控制。故选B项。

◎读后知识积累：make it to赶上，达到；到达；round-the-clock care 24小时的全天护理；intense/ɪnˈtens/ adj. 很大的；紧张的，激烈的；tough /tʌf/ adj. 强硬的，严厉的；困难的；fence  /fens/ n. 栅栏，篱笆。

C

A British woman who won a S1 million prize after she was named the World's Best Teacher will use the cash to bring inspirational figures into UK schools.

Andria Zafirakou,a north London secondary school teacher, said she wanted to bring about a classroom revolution （变革）. “We are going to make a change，＂she said.＂I＇ve started a project to promote the teaching of the arts in our schools."

The project results from the difficulties many schools have in getting artists of any sort - whether an up-and-coming local musician or a major movie star - into schools to work with and inspire children.

Zafirakou began the project at Alperton Community School, her place of work for the past twelve years. “I've seen those magic moments when children are talking to someone they are inspired by - their eyes are shining and their faces light up,” she said. “We need artists . more than ever in our schools."

Artist Michael Craig-Martin said: “Andria's brilliant project to bring artists from all fields into direct contact with children is particularly welcome at a time when the arts are being downgraded in schools." It was a mistake to see the arts as unnecessary, he added.

Historian Sir Simon Schama is also a supporter of the project. He said that arts education in schools was not just an add-on. “It is absolutely necessary. The future depends on creativity and creativity depends on the young. What will remain of us when artificial intelligence takes over will be our creativity, and it is our creative spirit, our visionary sense of freshness,that has been our strength for centuries."

28.What will Zafirakou do with her prize money?

A. Make a movie. B.Build new schools.

C.Run a project. D. Help local musicians.

29.What does Craig-Martin think of the teaching of the arts in UK schools?

A. It is particularly difficult. B. It increases artists' income.

C. It opens children's mind. D.It deserves greater attention.

30.What should be stressed in school education according to Schama?

A. Moral principles. B. Interpersonal skills.

C.Creative abilities. D.Positive worldviews.

31.Which of the following is a suitable title for the text?

A.Bring Artists to Schools B.When Historians Meet Artists

C.Arts Education in Britain D.The World's Best Arts Teacher

C\[语篇解读\]本文为记叙文。文章讲述了英国一名女子在被评为世界最佳教师后获得了100万英镑的奖金，她将用这笔奖金发起一个项目，让艺术家进入学校，以促进学校的艺术教学。。

28\. C。间接信息题。根据题干定位到第二段内容，可知伦敦北部中学教师Andria Zafirakou想掀起一场课堂革命，她打算用自己的奖金启动了一个项目，以促进学校的艺术教学。故选C项。

29\. A。观点态度题。根据题干定位到第三段内容，理解可知Craig-Martin认为英国学校的艺术教学尤其困难，因为许多学校很难让任何类型的艺术家——无论是当地崭露头角的音乐家还是主要的电影明星——进入学校，与孩子们一起工作并激励他们，故选A项。

30\. C。观点态度题。根据题干定位到文章最后一段Itis absolutely necessary. The future depends on creativity and creativitydepends on the young（这是绝对必要的。未来取决于创造力，而创造力取决于年轻人）可知，Schama认为学校教育应该强调创造力。故选C项。

31. A。标题判断题。文章讲述了AndriaZafirakou用自己的奖金启动了一个项目，将艺术家带进学校，促进艺术教学。故选A项。

◎读后知识积累：inspirational /ˌɪnspəˈreɪʃənl/ adj. 启发灵感的，鼓舞人心的；project /ˈprɒdʒekt/ n. 工程；方案；计划；up-and-comingadj.积极进取的，很有前途的；brilliant /ˈbrɪliənt/ adj. 灿烂的，闪耀的；杰出的；downgrade /ˌdaʊnˈɡreɪd/ v. 使降级；artificialintelligence人工智能。

D

An Australian professor is developing a robot to monitor the health of grazing cattle, a development that could bring big changes to a profession that's relied largely on a low-tech approach for decades but is facing a labor shortage.

Salah Sukkarieh, a professor at the University of Sydney, sees robots as necessary given how cattlemen are aging. He is building a four-wheeled robot that will run on solar and electric power. It will use cameras and sensors to monitor the animals. A computer system will analyze the video to determine whether a cow is sick. Radio tags （标签）on the animals will measure temperature changes. The quality of grassland will be tracked by monitoring the shape，color and texture （质地） of grass. That way， cattlemen will know whether they need to move their cattle to another field for nutrition purposes.

Machines have largely taken over planting, watering and harvesting crops such as com and wheat, but the monitoring of cattle has gone through fewer changes.

For Texas cattleman Pete Bonds, it's increasingly difficult to find workers interested in watching cattle. But Bonds doesn't believe a robot is right for the job. Years of experience in the industry - and failed attempts to use technology - have convinced him that the best way to check cattle is with a man on a horse. Bonds, who bought his first cattle almost 50 years ago, still has each of his cowboys inspect 300 or 400 cattle daily and look for signs that an animal is getting sick.

Other cattlemen see more promise in robots. Michael Kelsey Paris, vice president of the Oklahoma Cattlemen's Association, said a robot could be extremely useful given rising concems about cattle theft. Cattle tend to be kept in remote places and their value has risen, making them appealing targets.

32.What is a problem with the cattle-raising industry?

A. Soil pollution. B.Lack of workers.

C.Aging machines. D. Low profitability.

33\. What will Sukkarieh's robot be able to do?

A.Monitor the quality of grass. B.Cure the diseased cattle.

C.Move cattle to another field. D.Predict weather changes.

34.Why does Pete Bonds still hire cowboys to watch cattle?

A. He wants to help them earn a living. B.He thinks men can do the job better.

C. He is inexperienced in using robots. D.He enjoys the traditional way of life.

35.How may robots help with cattle watching according to Michael Kelsey?

A.Increase the value of cattle. B. Bring down the cost of labor.

C.Make the job more appealing. D.Keep cattle from being stolen.

D\[语篇解读\]本文是一篇说明文。文章讲述了澳大利亚一名教授正在开发一种依靠太阳能和电力驱动的机器人，用于监测放牧牛健康状况。

32\. B。直接信息题。根据题干第一段a profession that’s relied largely on a low-techapproach for decades but is facing a labor shortage可知，几十年来，畜牧业主要依靠低技术手段，目前正面临劳动力短缺的问题。故选B项。

33\. A。直接信息题。根据题干定位到第二段Thequality of grassland will be tracked by monitoring the shape，colorand texture（质地）of grass（通过监测草形状、颜色和质地来跟踪草地的质量）可知，Sukkarieh的机器人可以监测草的质量。故选A项。

34. B。间接信息题。根据题干定位到第四段ButBonds doesn’t believe a robot is right for the job. Years of experience in theindustry — and failed attempts to use technology — have convinced him that thebest way to check cattle is with a man on a horse（但Bonds认为机器人并不适合这份工作。多年的行业经验——以及使用技术的失败尝试——使他确信，检查牛的最好方法是让一名男子骑在马上）可知，Bonds仍然雇佣牛仔看牛是因为他认为人能做得更好。故选B项。

34\. B。观点态度题。根据题干定位到文章最后一段Michael Kelsey Paris, vicepresident of the Oklahoma Cattlemen’s Association, said a robot could beextremely useful given rising concerns about cattle theft（俄克拉荷马州养牛人协会副会长Michael Kelsey Paris说，鉴于人们对偷牛的担忧不断上升，机器人可能会非常有用）可知，机器人帮助照看牛，可以防止牛被偷。故选D项。

◎读后知识积累：sensor /ˈsensə/ n. 传感器；monitor  /ˈmɒnɪtə/ vt. 监控；analyze  /ˈænəlaɪz/ vt. 分析。

◎长难句分析：An Australian professor is developing a robot to monitor the healthof grazing cattle, a development that could bring big changes to a professionthat’s relied largely on a low-tech approach for decades but is facing a laborshortage.

句子剖析：第一个that引导定语从句修饰a development，从句中另一个that引导定语从句修饰a profession，其中but并列两个谓语is reliedlargely 和is facing。

汉语意思：澳大利亚一名教授正在开发一种机器人，用于监测放牧牛的健康状况。这一开发可能会给畜牧业带来重大变化。几十年来，畜牧业主要依靠低技术手段，但目前正面临劳动力短缺的问题。

第二节（共5小题；每小题2.5分，满分12.5分）

阅读下面短文，从短文后的选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。选项中有两项为多余选项。

If the only reading you ever do is the novel or magazine, the speed at which you read -probably does not matter very much. But if you have to read a great deal for study, you will appreciate the benefits of being able to read more quickly.36 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

·Before you open the book, make sure that you are comfortable. You need a seat which supports your back and the book should be at the right distance from your eyes. 37 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

38 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Look at the table of contents, the preface, the chapter heading,etc.This will help you to decide whether you really need to read the whole book or only certain parts of it. Ten minutes spent in this way could save you quite a lot of time in the long run.

· If you decide that you need to read the whole book, decide how much you can read at a time. 39\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ A history book which may contain the facts in story form will be easier to read than one dealing with scientific subjects. In the former case you may be able to read a chapter. In the latter you may only be able to read one page.

Always keep a pencil and paper beside you. 40 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Note also the facts important for your purpose as well as anything which leads you to further research. You don't have to write these things in detail. It is enough to put the page number and one or two words as a reminder .

A. Stop to have a rest now and then.

B. Spend a few minutes looking through the book.

C. This depends on the type of book you are reading.

D. Here are some tips to help improve your reading speed.

E. Make a note of any page which is of special importance.

F. You may find yourself having to leam something by heart.

G Keep the room cool rather than warm to avoid feeling sleepy.

\[语篇解读\]这是一篇说明文。文章主要介绍了一些如何提高阅读速度的建议。

36。D。考查过渡句。根据空前If the only reading you ever do is the novel or magazine, the speedat which you read -probably does not matter very much. But if you have to reada great deal for study, you will appreciate the benefits of being able to readmore quickly（如果你唯一的阅读是小说或杂志，那么你阅读的速度可能并不重要。但是，如果你必须大量阅读来学习，你就会感激能够更快地阅读的好处）及下面各段介绍提高阅读速度的方法，可知D项（这里有一些帮助提高阅读速度的建议）符合语境。

37。G。考查主题句。根据本段主题句Beforeyou open the book, make sure that you are comfortable.（在你打开书之前，确保你感到舒服）可知，本段主要说明要给自己创造舒适的阅读环境。G（保持房间凉爽而不是温暖以避免困倦）符合语境。

38。B。考查主题句。参考各段首句可知设空处为段落主题句。根据下文Look at the table of contents, the preface, the chapter heading, etc（查看目录、前言、章节标题等）可知，本段主要讲述在阅读一本书之前要先浏览一下大致内容。故B项（花几分钟浏览一下这本书）符合语境。

39。C。考查细节句。根据本段主题句If you decide that you need to read the whole book, decide how muchyou can read at a time（如果你决定要读完整本书，决定一下你一次能读多少）和下文Ahistory book which may contain the facts in story form will be easier to readthan one dealing with scientific subjects（以故事形式包含事实的历史书比科学题材的书更容易阅读）可知，看书时间的长短取决于书的类型。故C项（这取决于你读的书的类型）符合语境。

40。考查主题句。根据段落主题句Alwayskeep a pencil and paper beside you（总是在身边放一支铅笔和一张纸）可知，本段强调要随时注意记笔记。E项（把任何有特别重要的一页都记下来）符合语境。

◎读后知识积累：preface/ˈprefəs/ n. 前言；chapterheading章节标题；in the long run从长远来看；reminder/rɪˈmaɪndə/n. 提醒物。

第三部分 语言运用（共两节，满分30分）

第一节（共15小题；每小题1分，满分15分）

阅读下面短文，从每题所给的A、B、C、D四个选项中选出可以填入空白处的最佳

Over the past 38 years, Mr. Wang has pretended to be someone else many times,and has even learned to＿41＿different dialects（方言），leading to him being described as an “Oscar-winning actor".

The 60-year-old is not an actor, but a ＿42.＿However,he is more devoted to his “ ＿43＿ "than any real actor.

In the 1990s, a group of thieves often sold stolen goods with the heip of some beggars. To look into the ＿44＿，Wang disguised（伪装）himself and ＿45＿ the beggars．Dirty shorts and old shoes gave him the ＿46＿ of a real beggar and his convincing dialect soon won him the ＿47＿ of the beggars.

“I often 48 them to drink alcohol. Once they were ＿49＿,they began to talk a lot,"Wang said. “I'd then \_\_50 \_\_ myself to use the toilet,51 what the beggars said, and send the ＿52＿ to my teammates.”

Wang，who is often in 53＿ situations， is also a judo （柔道） master． “As long as I get close enough, no criminal can 54\_\_ from me," he said.

Wang's 55 won him several honors, including a National May Day Labor Medal and 11 Citations of Merit.Paris.

41.A.teach B.compare C.assess D.speak

42.A.lawyer B.doctor C.policeman D.businessman

43.A.role B.study C.family D.audience

44.A.minor B.case C.future D.question

45.A.interviewed B.joined C.arrested D.assisted

46.A.challenge B.experience C.appearance D.freedom

47.A.vote B.sympathy C.permission D.trust

48.A.invited B.forced C.helped D.expected

49.A.drunk B.deserted C.bored D.lost

50.A.guide B.persuade C.excuse D.allow

51.A.refer to B.note down C.ask about D.miss out

52.A.plan B.agreement C.direction D.information

53.A.awkward B.dangerous C.unfortunate D.strange

54.A.separate B.recover C.escape D.hear

55.A.courage B.honesty C.kindness D.optimism

\[语篇解读\]本文是记叙文。讲述了警察王先生在过去的38年里，多次假扮他人，甚至学会了说不同的方言，并且不顾危险混入犯罪团伙，成功破案的故事。

41\. D。语境结构衔接的考查。根据前提示Mr. Wang has pretended to be someone else many times及后暗示different dialects可知，王先生多次能扮成别人，还会讲不同的方言。故填D项。

42\. C。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示To look into the <u>  44  </u> ，Wangdisguised（伪装）himself及段尾including a National May Day Labor Medal and 11 Citations of Merit. Paris可知，王先生是一名警察。故填C项。句意：这位60岁的老人不是演员，而是警察。A. lawyer 律师；B. doctor医生；C. policeman 警察；D. businessman 商人。

43\. A。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示than any real actor可知，王投身于演员的角色中。故填A项。A. role 角色；B. study学习；C. family家庭；D. audience观众。句意：然而，他比任何真正的演员都更专注于他的“角色”。

44\. B。语境结构衔接的考查。根据前提示In the 1990s, a group of thieves often sold stolen goods with thehelp of some beggars可知，这是一起犯罪案件。故填B项。A. minor 未成年人；B. case 情况，案件；C. future未来；D. question问题。句意：为了调查这个案子,王伪装自己并加入了乞丐中。

45\. B。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示Dirty shorts and old shoes gave him可知，他混入乞丐中。故填B项。句意：为了调查这个案子,王伪装自己并加入了乞丐中。A. interviewed采访；B. joined 加入；C. arrested 逮捕；D. assisted协助。

46\. C。语境结构衔接的考查。根据前提示Dirty shorts and old shoes可知，肮脏的短裤和旧鞋子使他看起来像一个真正的乞丐。故填C项。A. challenge 挑战；B. experience 经历；C. appearance出现，外表； D. freedom自由。

47\. D。语义衔接的考查。根据前提示his convincing dialect soon won him the可知，他的方言讲得好，赢得乞丐们信任。故填D项。A. vote 投票；B. sympathy 同情；C. permission 批准；D. trust 信任。

48\. A。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示them to drink alcohol可知，为了套他们的话，王先生请他们喝酒。故填A项。A. invited邀请；B. forced强迫；C. helped帮助；D. expected期待。

49\. A。语义衔接的考查。根据前提示them to drink alcohol可知，话多是在喝醉后。故填A项。A. drunk喝醉的；B. deserted抛弃的；C. bored无聊的；D. lost失去的。句意：“我经常邀请他们喝酒。一旦他们喝醉了，他们就开始说很多话。

50. C。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示and sendthe <u>  52  </u> tomy teammates可知，为了发送出信息，王借口去厕所。故填C项。A. guide 引导；B. persuade劝说；C. excuse找借口；D. allow允许。

51. B。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示what thebeggars said, and send the <u>  52  </u> tomy teammates可知，王把乞丐醉后真言记下来。故填B项。A. refer to 指的是；B. note down作记录；C. ask about 询问；D. missout 错过，遗漏。

52. D。语境结构衔接的考查。根据前提示what thebeggars said可知，这里是发重要信息。故填D项。A. plan计划；B. agreement同意；C. direction指导；D. information信息。句意：然后我会借口自己去厕所，记下乞丐说了什么，然后把信息发给我的队友。

53\. B。语境结构衔接的考查。根据后暗示As long as I get close enough, no criminal can <u>  54  </u> from me可知，经常处于犯罪分子中，这是很危险的情况。故填B项。A. awkward尴尬的；B. dangerous危险的；C. unfortunate不幸的；D. strange奇怪的。句意：王是经常在危险的情况下,也是一个柔道大师。

54. C。惯用衔接的考查。根据前提示is also a judo （柔道） master可知，身为柔道大师，任何罪犯都不能从他身边逃不掉。故填C项。A. separate 分离；B. recover恢复； C. escape 逃避；D. hear 听到。

55. A。语境结构衔接的考查。根据前提示Wangdisguised（伪装）himself可知，王乔装打扮混入罪犯团伙，勇气可嘉。故填A项。A. courage 勇气；B. honesty诚实；C. kindness善良；D. optimism乐观。句意：王的勇气为他赢得了许多荣誉，包括一枚全国五一劳动奖章和11项嘉奖。

第二节（共10小题；每小题1.5分，满分15分）

阅读下面短文，在空白处填入1个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。

I've always loved the ocean. In the\_＿56\_＿ (seven) grade,I started volunteering at the Monterey Bay Aquarium in California. I was upset to learn that many sea animals eat plastic garbage,＿57＿(think)it is food.

I decided to do something ＿58＿ (educate) people about this problem. I held presentations at schools to teach kids about plastic waste. I wanted to reach businesses too. I decided that if I learned of a company_59＿ used a lot of plastic, I'd send it an email urging it to cut back.

One day, I saw a commercial for a health-care company. People in the ad were using plastic straws （吸管）． I found the contact information of the company＿ 60＿ emailed its president. I told him how ＿ 61＿ (harm) plastic could be to the environment and asked him to consider using more eco-friendly options. I was so＿ 62\_ (excite) when he wrote back to me.He said he would make sure that the company cut its use of plastic straws in half.

I kept going. Whenever I heard of businesses using plastic, I'd send an email. One of the biggest companies I wrote to ＿63＿ (be) Alaska Airlines Paris. A company ＿64\_ (represent). wrote back and told me the airline was switching over ＿65＿ plastic to paper cups on all of its 1,200 daily flights.

\[语篇解读\]本文是一篇记叙文。文章讲述了作者一直致力于保护海洋、减少塑料垃圾的努力。

56\. seventh。考查序数词。名词grade前面需用序数词seventh修饰。

57\. thinking。考查非谓语动词。分析句子结构可知，think与其逻辑主语manysea animals之间是主动关系且后接宾语从句it is food，故空格用现在分词thinking。

58\. to educate。考查非谓语动词。分析句子结构可知，<u>句子已有谓语</u>decided，故空格需用不定式to educate作目的状语。句意：我决定做一些事情来教育人们这个问题。

59\. which或that。考查定语从句。分析句子结构可知，空格<u>需</u>引导定语从句，修饰先行词acompany，关系词在从句中作主语，指物，所以填which或that。

60\. and。考查连词。found和emailed之间是并列关系，空格需填and连接两个谓语动词。

61\. harmful。考查形容词。该处为how引导的感叹句，how之后接形容词，所以填harmful。句意：我告诉他塑料对环境的危害，并请他考虑使用更环保的产品。

62\. excited。考查形容词。was之后是表语，was之前是人作主语，故空格需用过去分词形式excited。

63\. was。考查时态和主谓一致。根据定语从句的谓语动词wrote，可知这里描述发生在过去的事情，空格需用一般过去时；oneof + 形容词最高级 + 可数名词复数结构中，谓语动词用单数，所以填空格填写was。句意：我给写信的最大的公司之一是巴黎阿拉斯加航空公司。

64\. representative。考查名词。该空作句子主语，用名词，前面受不定冠词修饰，故用名词单数形式representative。

65\. the。考查冠词。特指“1200个航班的塑料杯”，空格需填定冠词the。句意：一位公司代表回信告诉我，该航空公司将把每天1200个航班的塑料杯换成纸杯。

56\. seventh 57. thinking 58. to educate 59. that/which 60. and

61\. harmful 62. excited 63. was 64. representative 65. from

第四部分 写作（共两节，满分40分）

第一节（满分15分）

你校英文报 Youth 正在庆祝创刊十周年。请你写一篇短文投稿，内容包括：1．读报的经历：

2．喜爱的栏目：

3．期望和祝福。

注意：

1．写作词数应为80左右：

2．请按如下格式在答题卡的相应位置作答。

**One possible version:**

**Youth and Me**

To begin with, I’d like to offer my warmest congratulations on the 10th anniversary of Youth! I’ve been a big fan of Youth since the day my teacher recommended it to me. Shy and negative, I was unconfident to join any activity during that time and it was Youth that encouraged me to go through the hard time. Even now reading my favorite column—the Success Stories of Youth, still gives me a strong power to strengthen my heart.

Hopefully Youth will record more stories of positive energy and inspire more students in the next 10 years! (97words)

\[范文点拨\]

这是一篇与祝贺信相类似的书面表达，要求考生在对该报刊表达祝贺的同时写出自己对该报的感受和期望。因此考生开篇应以祝贺语点题；再回顾自己与该报刊的经历，这部分可以写自己是在什么情况下得知此报或读报时所受到的启发等，“喜爱的栏目”也可以一并插入写在这里；最后，给出对该报刊的期望，如祝愿报刊办得越来越好和激励更多学生等。在写作过程中，注意文章要有逻辑和条理，最重要是多使用高级句型，如范文中使用了形容词作状语、强调句和动名词短语作主语结构等，使得文章更具吸引力。

第二节（满分25分）

阅读下面材料，根据其内容和所给段落开头语续写两段，使之构成一篇完整的短文。

A MOTHER'S DAY SURPRISE

The twins were filled with excitement as they thought of the surprise they were planning for Mother's Day. How pleased and proud Mother would be when they brought her breakfast in bed. They planned to make French toast and chicken porridge （粥）. They had watched their mother in the kitchen. There was nothing to it. Jenna and Jeff knew exactly what to do.

The big day came at last. The alarm rang at 6 a.m. The pair went down the stairs quietly to the kitchen. They decided to boil the porridge first. They put some rice into a pot of water and left it to boil while they made the French toast. Jeff broke two eggs into a plate and added in some milk.Jenna found the bread and put two slices into the egg mixture.Next,Jeff tumed on the second stove（炉）burmer to heat up the frying pan. Everything was going smoothly until Jeff started frying the bread.The pan was too hot and the bread tumed black within seconds.Jenna threw the bumt piece into the sink and put in the other slice of bread. This time, she turned down the fire so it cooked nicely.

Then Jeff noticed steam shooting out of the pot and the lid（盖子）starting to shake.The next minute,the porridge boiled over and put out the fire.Jenna panicked.Thankfully,Jeff stayed calm and turned off the gas quickly.But the stove was a mess now.Jenna told Jeff to clean it up so they could continue to cook the rest of the porridge. But Jeff's hand touched the hot burner and he gave a cry of pain. Jenna made him put his hand in cold water.Then she caught the smell of burming. Oh dear! The piece of bread in the pan had tued black as well.

注意：

1．续写词数应为150左右；

2．请按如下格式在答题卡的相应位置作答。

As the twins looked around them in disappintment,their father appeared.

The twins carried the breakfast upstairs and woke their mother up.

**范文**

**As the twins looked around them in disappointment, their father appeard.Catching sight of the messy situation,he immediately understood what had happened. Instead of blaming them for their carelessness, their father patted them on the heads,comforing, “don’t panick! I can guide you to cook the special breakfast.” At the words,Jenna and Jeff gave a cryof joy.He patinetly instructed them how to prepare French toast and chicken porridge. Everything was going smoothly and they accomplished their task perfectly this time within an hour. Everything settled, father urged,“Fill the plate with toast and a bowl with porridge and give your Mum a big surprise.”**

**The twins carried the breakfast upstairs and woke their mother up.“Happy Mother’s day,dear Mummy!”, their yelled. Mother sat up right away, and thankfully took them in their arms. Her eyes were shining brilliantly at the sight of the colorful breakfast tray. Mother bit into a sandwich and said it was the best she had ever tasted. Jeff shamefully recognized it was Father who helped them out. Then they went down the stairs, finding Dad cleaning up they kitchen. So moved were the twins that they decided to do more housework and take more family responsibility.**

**译文：**

**当双胞胎失望的环顾四周时，他们的父亲出现了。一看到混乱的局面，他立刻明白发生了什么事。他们的父亲并没有责备他们的粗心大意，反而拍拍他们的头安慰说：“别慌！我可以指导你做特别的早餐。”听到这些话，珍娜和杰夫高兴地叫了起来。他耐心教导他们如何做法式吐司和鸡粥。一切都进行得很顺利，这次他们在一个小时内完美地完成了任务。等一切都安排好了，父亲催促道：“给妈妈一盘烤面包，一碗粥，给她一个大大的惊喜。”**

**双胞胎把早餐送到楼上叫醒了妈妈，“母亲节快乐，亲爱的妈妈！”他们喊道。妈妈马上坐了起来，感激地把他们抱在怀里。她的眼睛一看到五彩缤纷的早餐盘就闪耀着光芒。妈妈咬了一口三明治，称这是她吃过的最好吃的三明治。杰夫羞愧地承认是父亲帮助他们摆脱了困境。然后他们走下楼梯，发现爸爸正在打扫厨房。这对双胞胎非常感动，他们决定做更多的家务，承担更多的家庭责任。**

参考答案：（注：非官方答案）

**第一部分 听力**

1-5:CCBAC 6-10:ABABA

11-15:CBCAB 16-20:ACBCC

**第二部分 阅读**

21\. C      22. C      23. D      24. A      25. A  

26\. B      27. B      28. C      29. D      30. C  

31\. A      32. B      33. A      34. B      35. D  

36\. D      37. G      38. B      39. C      40. E

**第三部分 语言运用**

41\. D      42. C      43. A      44. B      45. B

46\. C      47. D      48. A      49. A      50. C 

51\. B      52. D      53. B      54. C      55. A

56\. seventh  57. thinking  58. to educate  59. that/which  60. and

61\. harmful  62. excited  63. was  64. representative  65. from

**第四部分 写作**

第一节

**One possible version:**

*Youth*** and Me**

      To begin with, I’d like to offer my warmest congratulations on the 10th anniversary of Youth! I’ve been a big fan of Youth since the day my teacher recommended it to me. Shy and negative, I was unconfident to join any activity during that time and it was Youth that encouraged me to go through the hard time. Even now reading my favorite column—the Success Stories of Youth, still gives me a strong power to strengthen my heart.

      Hopefully Youth will record more stories of positive energy and inspire more students in the next 10 years! (97words)

     

**\[范文点拨\]**

    这是一篇与祝贺信相类似的书面表达，要求考生在对该报刊表达祝贺的同时写出自己对该报的感受和期望。因此考生开篇应以祝贺语点题；再回顾自己与该报刊的经历，这部分可以写自己是在什么情况下得知此报或读报时所受到的启发等，“喜爱的栏目”也可以一并插入写在这里；最后，给出对该报刊的期望，如祝愿报刊办得越来越好和激励更多学生等。在写作过程中，注意文章要有逻辑和条理，最重要是多使用高级句型，如范文中使用了形容词作状语、强调句和动名词短语作主语结构等，使得文章更具吸引力。

第二节

[2021年高考全国新高考卷读后续写下水文](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzU2NTUyMzY2OA==&mid=2247531991&idx=1&sn=de906ee087f21f0d7efd63b47d5d0df2&chksm=fcb8586ccbcfd17a3f703c01bb69c20456dd2cacd4dd73c049073522538e31a7b91db1c0cb74&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

**One possible version:**

    *As the twins looked around them in disappointment, their father appeared.* One look and he knew what they were up to. Seeing their depressed faces, he told them to clean up the kitchen while he helped them make breakfast for Mother. The twins cheered up and did as told. Within an hour, the kitchen was cleaned, and Father had made some egg sandwiches and cooked some pork porridge instead. Then he sneaked (溜进) back to bed. Meanwhile, the twins prepared the breakfast tray (托盘), added a card they had made and walked out of the kitchen. (83 words)

    *The twins carried the breakfast upstairs and woke their mother up. *They hugged her and yelled “Happy Mother’s Day, darling Mummy!” Mother hugged the twins. Her eyes widened at the sight of the breakfast tray. She shook Father who was pretending to sleep. He acted astonished when he saw the breakfast. Mother bit into a sandwich and said it was the best she had ever tasted. Jeff immediately wanted to have a bite. Jenna caught her father’s eye and they winked (眨眼示意) at each other secretly. (74 words)

**\[范文点拨\]**

    做读后续写只要紧记两句口诀“人物时态和事件，语言特色不要变。两段首句定一框，二框二首正能量”就可以！首先通读全文，找出本文大意，接着结合给出来的两个首句去定第一段的框架，然后再按照正能量结尾的原则去把第二段框架定下，就可以添加细节把框架补充完整了。

    续写时要注意故事延续的合理性和逻辑性，如第一段爸爸出现了，根据第二段双胞胎拿着早餐去叫醒妈妈，我们可合理推测爸爸帮助了双胞胎完成这个惊喜；第二段妈妈醒来后看到自己的孩子给自己做了早餐，正常反应通常会是感动或震惊。除此之外，多使用高级词汇及高级句型，注重对人物动作和心理描写的刻画。
