

**2023年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试(全国乙卷)**

**英语学科**

**注意事项：**

**1.答卷前，考生务必将自己的姓名、准考证号填写在答题卡上，并将自己的姓名、准考证号、座位号填写在本试卷上。**

**2.回答选择题时,选出每小题答案后,用2B铅笔把答题卡上对应题目的答案标号涂黑;如需改动，用橡皮擦干净后，再选涂其他答案标号。涂写在本试卷上无效。**

**3.作答非选择题时，将答案书写在答题卡上，书写在本试卷上无效。**

**4．考试结束后，将本试卷和答题卡一并交回。**

**第一部分 听力(共两节，满分30分)**

**做题时，先将答案标在试卷上。录音内容结束后，你将有两分钟的时间将试卷上的答案转涂到答题卡上。**

**第一节(共5小题;每小题1.5分，满分1.5分)**

**听下面5段对话。每段对话后有一个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听完每段对话后，你都有10秒钟的时间来回答有关小题和阅读下一小题。每段对话仅读一遍。**

例：How much is the shirt?

A. £19.15. B. £9.18. C. £9.15.

答案是C。

1\. 【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

Where does the conversation probably take place?

A. In the book store. B. In the register office. C. In the dorm building.

2\. 【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

What is the weather like now?

A. Sunny. B. Cloudy. C. Rainy.

3\. 【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

What does the man want to do on the weekend?

A. Do some gardening. B. Have a barbecue. C. Go fishing.

4\. 【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

What are the speakers talking about?

A. A new office. B. A change of their jobs. C. A former colleague.

5\. 【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

What do we know about Andrew?

A. He’s optimistic. B. He’s active. C. He’s shy.

**第二节(共15小题;每小题1.5分，满分22.5分)**

**听下面5段对话或独白。每段对话或独白后有几个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听每段对话或独白前，你将有时间阅读各个小题，每小题5秒钟;听完后，各小题将给出5秒钟的作答时间，每段对话或独白读两遍。**

听下面一段较长对话，回答以下小题。【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

6\. Which of the following does the woman dislike?

A. The bedroom. B. The sitting room. C. The kitchen.

7 What does the woman suggest they do next?

A. Go to another agency. B. See some other flats. C. Visit the neighbours.

听下面一段较长对话，回答以下小题。【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

8\. What is the man doing?

A. He’s making a phone call.

B. He’s chairing a meeting.

C. He’s hosting a program.

9\. What makes Mrs. Johnson worried about her daughter in Africa?

A. Lack of medical support.

B. Inconvenience of communication.

C. Poor transportation system.

听下面一段较长对话，回答以下小题。【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

10\. What position does the man apply for?

A. A salesperson. B. An engineer. C. An accountant.

11\. Which aspect of the company appeals to the man?

A. The company culture. B. The free accommodations. C. The competitive pay.

12\. What is difficult for the man to deal with?

A. Interpersonal relationships. B. Quality-quantity balance. C. Unplanned happenings.

听下面一段较长对话，回答以下小题。【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

13\. How does Robert sound when speaking of his being a writer?

A. Hopeful. B. Grateful. C. Doubtful.

14\. What was Robert like before he was 9 years old?

A. He had wild imagination. B. He enjoyed sports. C. He loved science.

15\. What did Robert’s father do?

A. A teacher. B. A coach. C. A librarian.

16 What helped Robert become a writer?

A. Writing daily. B. Listening to stories. C. Reading extensively.

听下面一段独白，回答以下小题。【此处可播放相关音频，请去附件查看】

17\. Where was Open Tchaikovsky Competition held in 1986?

A. In Moscow. B. In Chelyabinsk. C. In Berlin.

18\. What does Maxim say about the competition he attended at 10?

A. It inspired many young musicians.

B. It was the music event of his dreams.

C. It was a life-changing experience.

19\. Which kind of music are the young players required to play?

A. Rock music. B. Pop music. C. Classical music.

20\. What does Maxim value most in young players’ performance?

A. Expressiveness. B. Smoothness. C. Completeness.

**第二部分 阅读理解(共两节，满分40分)**

**第一节(共15小题;每小题2分，满分30分)**

**阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出最佳选项。**

**A**

PRACTITIONERS

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Jacqueline Felice de Almania** (c.1322) highlights the suspicion that women practicing medicine faced. Born to a Jewish family in Florence, she moved to Paris where she worked as a physician and performed surgery. In 1322 she was tried for practicing unlawfully. In spite of the court hearing testimonials (证明) of her ability as a doctor, she was banned from medicine. | **James Barry** (c.1789 — 1865) was born Margaret Bulkley in Ireland but, dressed as a man, she was accepted by Edinburgh University to study medicine. She qualified as a surgeon in 1813, then joined the British Army, serving overseas. Barry retired in 1859, having practiced her entire medical profession living and working as a man. |
| **Tan Yunxian** (1461 — 1554) was a Chinese physician who learned her skills from her grandparents. Chinese women at the time could not serve apprenticeships (学徒期) with doctors. However, Tan passed the official exam. Tan treated women from all walks of life. In 1511, Tan wrote a book, *Sayings of a Female Doctor*, describing her life as a physician.                    | **Rebecca Lee Crumpler** (1831 — 1895) worked as a nurse for eight years before studying in medical college in Boston in 1860. Four years later, she was the first African American woman to receive a medical degree. She moved to Virginia in 1865, where she provided medical care to freed slaves.                                         |

21\. What did Jacqueline and James have in common?

A. Doing teaching jobs. B. Being hired as physicians.

C. Performing surgery. D. Being banned from medicine.

22\. How was Tan Yunxian different from the other practitioners?

A. She wrote a book. B. She went through trials.

C. She worked as a dentist. D. She had formal education.

23\. Who was the first African American with a medical degree?

A. Jacqueline Felice de Almania. B. Tan Yunxian.

C. James Barry. D. Rebecca Lee Crumpler.

**B**

Living in Iowa and trying to become a photographer specializing in landscape (风景) can be quite a challenge, mainly because the corn state lacks geographical variation.

Although landscapes in the Midwest tend to be quite similar, either farm fields or highways, sometimes I find distinctive character in the hills or lakes. To make some of my landscape shots, I have traveled up to four hours away to shoot within a 10-minute time frame. I tend to travel with a few of my friends to state parks or to the countryside to go on adventures and take photos along the way.

Being at the right place at the right time is decisive in any style of photography. I often leave early to seek the right destinations so I can set up early to avoid missing the moment I am attempting to photograph. I have missed plenty of beautiful sunsets/sunrises due to being on the spot only five minutes before the best moment.

One time my friends and I drove three hours to Devil’s Lake, Wisconsin, to climb the purple quartz (石英) rock around the lake. After we found a crazy-looking road that hung over a bunch of rocks, we decided to photograph the scene at sunset. The position enabled us to look over the lake with the sunset in the background. We managed to leave this spot to climb higher because of the spare time until sunset. However, we did not mark the route (路线) so we ended up almost missing the sunset entirely. Once we found the place, it was stressful getting lights and cameras set up in the limited time. Still, looking back on the photos, they are some of my best shots though they could have been so much better if I would have been prepared and managed my time wisely.

24\. How does the author deal with the challenge as a landscape photographer in the Midwest?

A. By teaming up with other photographers. B. By shooting in the countryside or state parks.

C. By studying the geographical conditions. D. By creating settings in the corn fields.

25\. What is the key to successful landscape photography according to the author?

A. Proper time management. B. Good shooting techniques.

C. Adventurous spirit. D. Distinctive styles.

26\. What can we infer from the author’s trip with friends to Devil’s Lake?

A. They went crazy with the purple quartz rock.

B. They felt stressed while waiting for the sunset.

C. They reached the shooting spot later than expected.

D. They had problems with their equipment.

27\. How does the author find his photos taken at Devil’s Lake?

A. Amusing. B. Satisfying.

C. Encouraging. D. Comforting.

**C**

What comes into your mind when you think of British food? Probably fish and chips, or a Sunday dinner of meat and two vegetables. But is British food really so uninteresting? Even though Britain has a reputation for less-than-impressive cuisine, it is producing more top class chefs who appear frequently on our television screens and whose recipe books frequently top the best seller lists.

It’s thanks to these TV chefs rather than any advertising campaign that Britons are turning away from meat-and-two-veg and ready-made meals and becoming more adventurous in their cooking habits. It is recently reported that the number of those sticking to a traditional diet is slowly declining and around half of Britain’s consumers would like to change or improve their cooking in some way. There has been a rise in the number of students applying for food courses at UK universities and colleges. It seems that TV programmes have helped change what people think about cooking.

According to a new study from market analysts, 1 in 5 Britons say that watching cookery programmes on TV has encouraged them to try different food. Almost one third say they now use a wider variety of ingredients (配料) than they used to, and just under 1 in 4 say they now buy better quality ingredients than before. One in four adults say that TV chefs have made them much more confident about expanding their cookery knowledge and skills, and young people are also getting more interested in cooking. The UK’s obsession (痴迷) with food is reflected through television scheduling. Cookery shows and documentaries about food are broadcast more often than before. With an increasing number of male chefs on TV, it’s no longer “uncool” for boys to like cooking.

28\. What do people usually think of British food?

A. It is simple and plain. B. It is rich in nutrition.

C It lacks authentic tastes. D. It deserves a high reputation.

29\. Which best describes cookery programme on British TV?

A. Authoritative. B. Creative. C. Profitable. D. Influential.

30\. Which is the percentage of the people using more diverse ingredients now?

A. 20%. B. 24%. C. 25%. D. 33%.

31\. What might the author continue talking about?

A. The art of cooking in other countries. B. Male chefs on TV programmes.

C. Table manners in the UK. D. Studies of big eaters.

**D**

If you want to tell the history of the whole world, a history that does not privilege one part of humanity, you cannot do it through texts alone, because only some of the world has ever had texts, while most of the world, for most of the time, has not. Writing is one of humanity’s later achievements, and until fairly recently even many literate (有文字的) societies recorded their concerns not only in writing but in things.

Ideally a history would bring together texts and objects, and some chapters of this book are able to do just that, but in many cases we simply can’t. The clearest example of this between literate and non-literate history is perhaps the first conflict, at Botany Bay, between Captain Cook’s voyage and the Australian Aboriginals. From the English side, we have scientific reports and the captain’s record of that terrible day. From the Australian side, we have only a wooden shield (盾) dropped by a man in flight after his first experience of gunshot. If we want to reconstruct what was actually going on that day, the shield must be questioned and interpreted as deeply and strictly as the written reports.

In addition to the problem of miscomprehension from both sides, there are victories accidentally or deliberately twisted, especially when only the victors know how to write. Those who are on the losing side often have only their things to tell their stories. The Caribbean Taino, the Australian Aboriginals, the African people of Benin and the Incas, all of whom appear in this book, can speak to us now of their past achievements most powerfully through the objects they made: a history told through things gives them back a voice. When we consider contact (联系) between literate and non-literate societies such as these, all our first-hand accounts are necessarily twisted, only one half of a dialogue. If we are to find the other half of that <u>conversation</u>, we have to read not just the texts, but the objects.

32\. What is the first paragraph mainly about?

A. How past events should be presented. B. What humanity is concerned about.

C. Whether facts speak louder than words. D. Why written language is reliable.

33\. What does the author indicate by mentioning Captain Cook in paragraph 2?

A. His report was scientific. B. He represented the local people.

C. He ruled over Botany Bay. D. His record was one-sided.

34\. What does the underlined word “conversation” in paragraph 3 refer to?

A. Problem. B. History. C. Voice. D. Society.

35\. Which of the following books is the text most likely selected from?

A *How Maps Tell Stories of the World* B. *A Short History of Australia*

C. *A History of the World in 100 Objects* D. *How Art Works Tell Stories*

**第二节(共5小题;每小题2分，满分10分)**

**根据短文内容，从短文后的选项中选出能填入空白处的最佳选项。选项中有两项为多余选项。**

Indoor plants might look as if they just sit around not doing much, but in many ways they are the unsung heroes of the home. <u>\_\_\_\_36\_\_\_\_</u>, but studies have shown that they can promote people’s wellbeing by improving their mood (心情), reducing stress and helping their memory. What’s more, indoor plants are easy to look after and are not very expensive.

What are indoor plants?

Indoor plants, also known as houseplants or pot plants, are plants that like to grow indoors. Many of these species (物种) are not ideally suited to growing outside in the UK, especially in the winter. <u>\_\_\_\_37\_\_\_\_</u>.

Why are indoor plants good for you?

Will Spoelstra, who works at the Royal Botanic Gardens, says, “<u>\_\_\_\_38\_\_\_\_</u>. I find during the winter months, plants around the house can really lift your mood.” Several studies have backed this up and found that indoor plants can improve creativity, focus and memory. There is also research showing that pot plants can clean the air around them by removing harmful gases, such as carbon dioxide. They also remove some harmful chemicals from paints or cooking. <u>\_\_\_\_39\_\_\_\_</u>.

Which plants can you grow?

Aloe vera, peace lilies and spider plants are some of the species that are easy to grow indoors. You can buy plants from supermarkets, garden centres or online. Younger plants are often cheaper than fully grown ones, and you get to care for them as they mature — which is part of the joy of owning plants. “<u>\_\_\_\_40\_\_\_\_</u>,” Spoelstra says. “It can bring a new interest and focus into people’s lives and help to make the link between home and nature.”

A All plants are different

B. Not only do they look beautiful

C. There are many benefits to growing plants indoors

D. Instead, they grow better inside, where it is warmer

E. Plants like peace lilies and devil’s ivy are among the best

F. Changing the pot of your plant from time to time will also help

G. Learning about the requirements of each plant can be very rewarding

**第三部分 语言知识运用(共两节，满分45分)**

**第一节(共20小题;每小题1.5分，满分30分)**

**阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中，选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。**

To become the Olympic champion in the individual (个人) all-around event, Gabby Douglas had to leave everything she <u>\_\_\_\_41\_\_\_\_</u> best. She had to <u>\_\_\_42\_\_\_</u> her bedroom in Virginia. She had to say <u>\_\_\_\_43\_\_\_\_</u> to her two dogs and to the beach, where she loved to <u>\_\_\_\_44\_\_\_\_</u> waves on her board. But it was <u>\_\_\_\_45\_\_\_\_</u> to take the leap (飞跃), however <u>\_\_\_\_46\_\_\_\_</u> it would be. Even at 14, Douglas knew that. So she <u>\_\_\_\_47\_\_\_\_</u> about 1,200 miles away from home, to <u>\_\_\_\_48\_\_\_\_</u> with a coach from China. She lived with a family she had never <u>\_\_\_\_49\_\_\_\_</u> and everything was new to her.

As it turned out, Douglas did <u>\_\_\_\_50\_\_\_\_</u> what she needed to do to become Olympic champion when she <u>\_\_\_\_51\_\_\_\_</u>two Russians. The Chinese coach <u>\_\_\_\_52\_\_\_\_</u> Douglas into one of the best gymnasts in the <u>\_\_\_\_53\_\_\_\_</u>, helping her skyrocket from an <u>\_\_\_\_54\_\_\_\_</u> member of the national team to the top of the sport. By <u>\_\_\_\_55\_\_\_\_</u> the Olympic all-around title, she became the first black woman to do so. She <u>\_\_\_\_56\_\_\_\_</u> the competition from beginning to end. She said she had felt <u>\_\_\_\_57\_\_\_\_</u> all along that she would win.

Not so long ago, Martha Karoly the coordinator (联络人) of the women’s national team, did not think Douglas had what it <u>\_\_\_\_58\_\_\_\_</u> to be an Olympian. As time went by, she thought <u>\_\_\_\_59\_\_\_\_</u> that she could make the London Games — and win.

“I’m going to inspire so many people,” she said. “I’m ready to <u>\_\_\_\_60\_\_\_\_</u>.” And shine she did.

41\. A. tried B. thought C. judged D. knew

42\. A. take up B. pack up C. clean up D. do up

43\. A. goodbye B. hello C. thanks D. no

44\. A. cause B. observe C. ride D. strike

45\. A. common B. time C. fun D. tough

46\. A. breathtaking B. heartbreaking C. eye-catching D. head-spinning

47\. A. dropped out B. moved on C. pulled over D. went off

48\. A. reason B. talk C. compete D. train

49\. A. met B. helped C. understood D. needed

50\. A. approximately B. gradually C. exactly D. possibly

51\. A. defeated B. pleased C. respected D. assisted

52\. A. forced B. transformed C. persuaded D. put

53\. A. world B. city C. team D. state

54\. A. amateur B. elected C. average D. enthusiastic

55\. A. clarifying B. defending C. winning D. demanding

56\. A. followed B. organized C. watched D. led

57\. A. confident B. nervous C. excited D. uneasy

58\. A. viewed B. appeared C. mattered D. took

59\. A. now and then B. more and more C. far and wide D. on and on

60\. A. shine B. fly C. dance D. score

**第二节(共10小题;每小题1.5分，满分15分)**

阅读下面短文，在空白处填入1个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。

Beijing is a city bridging the ancient and the modern. From Buddhist temples to museums, narrow *hutong* <u>\_\_\_\_61\_\_\_\_</u> royal palaces, it is home to more than 3,000 years of glorious history even down to its layout, with the city keeping its carefully <u>\_\_\_\_62\_\_\_\_</u> (build) system of ring roads.

But for all its ancient buildings, Beijing is also a place <u>\_\_\_\_63\_\_\_\_</u> welcomes the fast-paced development of modern life, with 21st-century architectural <u>\_\_\_\_64\_\_\_\_</u> (wonder) standing side by side with historical buildings of the past.

It is a distinct visual contrast (反差) that shouldn’t work, <u>\_\_\_\_65\_\_\_\_</u> somehow these two very different worlds make a good combination. <u>\_\_\_\_66\_\_\_\_</u> (visit) several times over the last 10 years, I <u>\_\_\_\_67\_\_\_\_</u> (amaze) by the co-existence of old and new, and how a city was able to keep such a rich heritage (遗产) while constantly growing. As a photographer, I have spent the last two years <u>\_\_\_68\_\_\_</u> (record) everything I discovered.

The <u>\_\_\_\_69\_\_\_\_</u> (remark) development of this city, which is consciously designed to protect the past while stepping into the modern world, <u>\_\_\_\_\_70\_\_\_\_\_</u> (mean) there is always something new to discover here, and I could be photographing Beijing for the next 50 years.

**第四部分 写作(共两节，满分35分)**

**第一节 短文改错(共10小题;每小题1分，满分10分)**

71\. 假定英语课上老师要求同桌之间交换修改作文，请你修改你同桌写的以下作文。文中共有10处语言错误，每句中最多有两处。每处错误仅涉及一个单词的增加、删除或修改。

增加：在缺词处加一个漏字符号 (∧)，并在其下面写出该加的词。

删除：把多余的词用斜线 (\\ 划掉。

修改：在错的词下划一横线，并在该词下面写出修改后的词。

注意：1. 每处错误及其修改均仅限一词：

2\. 只允许修改10处，多者 (从第11处起)不计分。

Last Friday my mom decided to color his hair. She studied with all the hair products at the drugstore. The color she choose came in a box which had a picture of a woman that hair color looked just perfect. Mom was sure same color would look great on her. She put the new color on her hair or sat still for 30 minutes, just as the directions saying. However, instead of the brownish red hair she had hoped for, she final got purple hair. She went right into the shower to washing it, but it was no use. At least one thing proved truth: the color wouldn’t wash out.

**第二节 书面表达**

72\.

请以向学校英文报投稿的方式，用英语描述学习一项新技能的经历，及从中获得的体验和感受。\
注意：1.词数100左右;\
        2.开头和结尾已给出，不计入总词数。

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
