**2023年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试(全国甲卷)**

**英语学科**

**第一部分 听力(共两节，满分30分)**

**做题时，先将答案标在试卷上。录音内容结束后，你将有两分钟的时间将试卷上的答案转涂到答题卡上。**

**第一节(共5小题;每小题1.5分，满分1.5分)**

**听下面5段对话。每段对话后有一个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听完每段对话后，你都有10秒钟的时间来回答有关小题和阅读下一小题。每段对话仅读一遍。**

1\. Where does the conversation probably take place?

A. In the book store. B. In the register office. C. In the dorm building.

2\. What is the weather like now?

A. Sunny. B. Cloudy. C. Rainy.

3\. What does the man want to do on the weekend?

A. Do some gardening. B. Have a barbecue. C. Go fishing.

4\. What are the speakers talking about?

A. A new office. B. A change of their jobs. C. A former colleague.

5\. What do we know about Andrew?

A. He’s optimistic. B. He’s active. C. He’s shy.

**第二节(共15小题;每小题1.5分，满分22.5分)**

**听下面5段对话或独白。每段对话或独白后有几个小题，从题中所给的A、B、C三个选项中选出最佳选项。听每段对话或独白前，你将有时间阅读各个小题，每小题5秒钟;听完后，各小题将给出5秒钟的作答时间，每段对话或独白读两遍。**

**听第6段材料，回答第6、7题。**

6\. Which of the following does the woman dislike?

A. The bedroom. B. The sitting room. C. The kitchen.

7\. What does the woman suggest they do next?

A. Go to another agency. B. See some other flats. C. Visit the neighbours.

**听第7段材料，回答第8、9题。**

8\. What is the man doing?

A. He’s making a phone call.

B. He’s chairing a meeting.

C. He’s hosting a program.

9\. What makes Mrs. Johnson worried about her daughter in Africa?

A. Lack of medical support.

B. Inconvenience of communication.

C. Poor transportation system.

**听第8段材料，回答第10至12题。**

10\. What position does the man apply for?

A. A salesperson. B. An engineer. C. An accountant.

11\. Which aspect of the company appeals to the man?

A. The company culture. B. The free accommodations. C. The competitive pay.

12\. What is difficult for the man to deal with?

A. Interpersonal relationships. B. Quality-quantity balance. C. Unplanned happenings.

**听第9段材料，回答第13至16题。**

13\. How does Robert sound when speaking of his being a writer?

A. Hopeful. B. Grateful. C. Doubtful.

14\. What was Robert like before he was 9 years old?

A. He had wild imagination. B. He enjoyed sports. C. He loved science.

15\. What did Robert’s father do?

A. A teacher. B. A coach. C. A librarian.

16\. What helped Robert become a writer?

A. Writing daily. B. Listening to stories. C. Reading extensively.

**听第10段材料，回答第17至20题。**

17\. Where was Open Tchaikovsky Competition held in 1986?

A In Moscow. B. In Chelyabinsk. C. In Berlin.

18\. What does Maxim say about the competition he attended at 10?

A. It inspired many young musicians.

B. It was the music event of his dreams.

C. It was a life-changing experience.

19\. Which kind of music are the young players required to play?

A. Rock music. B. Pop music. C. Classical music.

20\. What does Maxim value most in young players’ performance?

A Expressiveness. B. Smoothness. C. Completeness.

**第二部分 阅读理解(共两节,满分40分)**

**第一节(共15小题:每小题2分，满分30分)**

**阅读下列短文，从每题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中, 选出最佳选项。**

**A**

**Where to Eat in Bangkok**

Bangkok is a highly desirable destination for food lovers. It has a seemingly bottomless well of dining options. Here are some suggestions on where to start your Bangkok eating adventure.

**Nahm**

Offering Thai fine dining. Nahm provides the best of Bangkok culinary (烹饪的) experiences. It’s the only Thai restaurant that ranks among the top 10 of the word’s 50 best restaurants list. Head Chef David Thompson, who received a Michelin star for his Loodon-based Thai restaurant of the same name, opened this branch in the Metropolitan Hotel in 2010.

**Issays Stamese Club**

Issaya Siamese Club is intematoionally known Thai chef lan Kittichai’s first flagship Bangkok restaurant. The menu in this beautiful colonial house includes traditional Thai cuisine combined with modern cooking methods.

**Bo. tan**

Bo. tan has been making waves in Bangkok’s culinary sence since it opened in 2009. Serving hard-to-find Thai dishes in an elegant atmosphere, the restaurant is true to Thai cuisine’s roots, yet still manages to add a special twist. This place is good for a candlelit dinner or a work meeting with colleagues who appreciate fine food. For those extremely hungry there’s a large set menu.

**Gaggan**

Earning first place on the lates “Asia’s 50 best restaurants” list, progressive Indian restaurant Gaggan is one of the most exciting venues(场所) to arrive in Bangkok in recent years. The best table in this two-story colonial Thai home offers a window right into the kitchen, where you can see chef Gaggan and his staff in action. Culinary theater at its best.

1\. What do Nahm and Issaya Siamese Club have in common?

A. They adopt modern cooking methods. B. They have branches in London.

C. They have top-class chefs. D. They are based in hotels.

2\. Which restaurant offers a large set menu?

A. Gaggan. B. Bo. tan. C. Issaya Siamese Club. D. Nahm.

3\. What is special about Gaggan?

A. It hires staff from India. B. It puts on a play every day.

C. It serves hard-to-find local dishes. D. It shows the cooking process to guests.

**B**

Terri Bolton is <u>a dab hand</u> when it comes to DIY (do-it-yourself). Skilled at putting up shelves and piecing together furniture, she never pays someone else to do a job she can do herself.

She credits these skills to her late grandfather and builder Derek Lloyd. From the age of six, Terri, now 26, accompanied Derek to work during her school holidays. A day’s work was rewarded with £ 5 in pocket money. She says: “I’m sure I wasn’t much of a help to start with painting the rooms and putting down the flooring throughout the house. It took weeks and is was backbreaking work, but I know he was proud of my skills.”

Terri, who now rents a house with friends in Wandsworth, South West London, says DIY also saves her from losing any deposit when a tenancy (租期) comes to an end. She adds: “I’ve moved house many times and I always like to personalise my room and put up pictures. So, it’s been useful to know how to cover up holes and repaint a room to avoid any charges when I’ve moved out.”

With millions of people likely to take on DIY projects over that coming weeks, new research shows that more than half of people are planning to make the most of the long, warm summer days to get jobs done. The average spend per project will be around £ 823. Two thirds of people aim to improve their comfort while at home. Two fifth wish to increase the value of their house. Though DIY has traditionally been seen as male hobby, the research shows it is women now leading the charge.

4\. Which is closest in meaning to “a dab hand” in paragraph 1?

A An artist. B. A winner. C. A specialist. D. A pioneer.

5 Why did Terri’s grandfather give her £ 5 a day?

A. For a birthday gift. B. As a treat for her work.

C. To support her DIY projects. D. To encourage her to take up a hobby.

6\. How did Terri avoid losing the deposit on the house she rented?

A. By making it look like before. B. By furnishing it herself.

C. By splitting the rent with a roommate. D. By cancelling the rental agreement.

7\. What trend in DIY does the research show?

A. It is becoming more costly. B. It is getting more time-consuming.

C. It is turning into a seasonal industry. D. It is gaining popularity among females.

**C**

I was about 13 when an uncle gave me a copy of Jostein Gaarder’s *Sophie’s World*. It was full of ideas that were new to me, so I spent the summer with my head in and out of that book. It spoke to me and brought me into a world of philosophy (哲学).

That love for philosophy lasted until I got to college. Nothing kills the love for philosophy faster than people who think they understand Foucault, Baudrillard, or Confucius better than you — and then try to explain them.

Eric weiner’s *The Socrates Express: In Search of Life Lessons from Dead Philosophers* reawakened my love for philosophy. It is not an explanation but an invitation to think and experience philosophy.

Weiner starts each chapter with a scene on a train ride between cities and then frames each philosopher’s work in the context (背景) of one thing they can help us do better. The end result is a read in which we learn to wonder like Socrates, see like Thoreau, listen like Schopenhauer, and have no regrets like Nietzsche. This, more than a book about undestanding philosophy, is a book abour learning to use philosophy to improve a life.

He makes philosophical thought an appealing exercise that improves the quality of our experiences, and he does so with plenty of humor. Weiner enters into conversation with some of the most important philosophers in history, and he becomes part of that crowd in the process by decoding (解读) their messages and adding his own interpretation.

*The Socrates Express* is a fun, sharp book that draws readers in with its apparent simplicity and gradually pulls them in deeper thoughts on desire, loneliness, and aging. The invitation is clear: Weiner wants you to pick up a coffee or tea and sit down with this book. I encourage you to take his offer. It’s worth your time, even if time is something we don’t have a lot of.

8\. Who opened the door to philosophy for the author?

A. Foucault. B. Eric Weiner.

C. Jostein Gaarder. D. A college teacher.

9\. Why does the author list great philosophers in paragraph 4?

A. To compare Weiner with them.

B. To give examples of great works.

C. To praise their writing skills.

D. To help readers understand Weiners book.

10\. What does the author like about *The Socrates Express*?

A. Its views on history are well-presented.

B. Its ideas can be applied to daily life.

C. It includes comments from readers.

D. It leaves an open ending.

11\. What does the author think of Weiners book?

A. Objective and plain.

B. Daring and ambitious.

C. Serious and hard to follow.

D. Humorous and straightforward.

**D**

Grizzly bears, which may grow to about 2.5 m long and weigh over 400 kg, occupy a conflicted corner of the American psyche-we revere (敬畏) them even as they give us frightening dreams. Ask the tourists from around the world that flood into Yellowstone National Park what they most hope to see, and their answer is often the same: a grizzly bear.

“Grizzly bears are re-occupying large areas of their former range,” says bear biologist Chris Servheen. As grizzly bears expand their range into places where they haven’t been seen in a century or more, they’re increasingly being sighted by humans.

The western half of the U.S. was full of grizzlies when Europeans came, with a rough number of 50,000 or more living alongside Native Americans. By the early 1970s, after centuries of cruel and continuous hunting by settlers, 600 to 800 grizzlies remained on a mere 2 percent of their former range in the Northern Rockies. In 1975, grizzlies were listed under the Endangered Species Act.

Today, there are about 2,000 or more grizzly bears in the U.S. Their recovery has been so successful that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has twice attempted to delist grizzlies, which would loosen legal protections and allow them to be hunted. Both efforts were overturned due to lawsuits from conservation groups. For now, grizzlies remain listed.

Obviously, if precautions (预防) aren’t taken, grizzlies can become troublesome, sometimes killing farm animals or walking through yards in search of food. If people remove food and attractants from their yards and campsites, grizzlies will typically pass by without trouble. Putting electric fencing around chicken houses and other farm animal quarters is also highly effective at getting grizzlies away. “Our hope is to have a clean, attractant-free place where bears can pass through without learning bad habits,“ says James Jonkel, longtime biologist who manages bears in and around Missoula.

12\. How do Americans look at grizzlies?

A. They cause mixed feelings in people.

B. They should be kept in national parks.

C. They are of high scientific value.

D. They are a symbol of American culture.

13\. What has helped the increase of the grizzly population?

A. The European settlers’ behavior.

B. The expansion of bears’ range.

C. The protection by law since 1975.

D. The support of Native Americans.

14\. What has stopped the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service from delisting grizzlies?

A. The opposition of conservation groups.

B. The successful comeback of grizzlies.

C. The voice of the biologists.

D. The local farmers’ advocates.

15\. What can be inferred from the last paragraph?

A. Food should be provided for grizzlies.

B. People can live in harmony with grizzlies.

C. A special path should be built for grizzlies.

D. Technology can be introduced to protect grizzlies.

**第二节(共5小题;每小题2分，满分10分)**

**根据短文内容，从短文后的选项中选出能填入空白处的最佳选项。选项中有两项为多余选项。**

**Tricks To Becoming A Patient Person**

Here’s a riddle: What do traffic jams, long lines and waiting for a vacation to start all have in common? There’s one answer. <u>\_\_\_16\_\_\_</u>.

In the Digital Age, we’re used to having what we need immediately and right ai our fingertips. However, research suggests that if we practiced patience, we’d be a whole lot better off. Here are several tricks.

●Practice gratitude (感激)

Thankfulness has a lot of benefits: Research shows it makes us happier, less stressed and even more optimistic. <u>\_\_\_17\_\_\_</u>. “Showing thankfulness can foster self-control,” said Ye Li, researcher at the University of California.

● Make yourself wait

Instant gratification (满足) may seem like the most “feel good” option at the time, but psychology research suggests waiting for things actually makes us happier in the long run. And the only way for us to get into the habit of waiting is to practice. <u>\_\_\_18\_\_\_</u>. Put off watching your favorite show until the weekend or wait 10 extra minutes before going for that cake. You’ll soon find that the more patience you practice, the more you start to apply it to other, more annoying situations.

● <u>\_\_\_19\_\_\_</u>.

So many of us have the belief that being comfortabel is the only state we will tolerate, and when we experience something outside of our comfort zone, we get impatient about the circumstances. You should learn to say to yourself, “<u>\_\_\_20\_\_\_</u>.” You’ll then gradually become more patient.

A. Find your causes

B. Start with small tasks

C. Accept the uncomfortable

D. All this adds up to a state of hurry

E. It can also help us practice more patience

F. This is merely uncomfortable, not intolerable

G. They’re all situations where we could use a little extra patience

**第三部分 语言知识运用(共两节，满分45分)**

**第一节(共20小题：每小题1.5分，满分30分)**

**阅读下面短文，从短文后各题所给的A、B、C和D四个选项中, 选出可以填入空白处的最佳选项。**

Many years ago, I bought a house in the Garfagnana, where we still go every summer. The first time we <u>\_\_\_21\_\_\_</u> there, we heard the chug chug-chug of a motorbike <u>\_\_\_22\_\_\_</u> its way down the hill toward us. It was <u>\_\_\_23\_\_\_</u> called Mario, coming to <u>\_\_\_24\_\_\_</u> us a box containing some tomatoes and a bottle of wine. It was a very nice <u>\_\_\_25\_\_\_</u> for him to make. But when we looked at the tomatoes, we were <u>\_\_\_26\_\_\_</u> because they were so misshapen: not at all like the nice, round, <u>\_\_\_27\_\_\_</u> things you get in a supermarket. And the wine was cloudy, in a funny old bottle with no label (标签) on it. These can’t be any <u>\_\_\_28\_\_\_</u>, we thought. But we were <u>\_\_\_29\_\_\_</u> his kindness, so we <u>\_\_\_30\_\_\_</u> them.

What we discovered is that it’s <u>\_\_\_31\_\_\_</u> to judge what you eat only by its <u>\_\_\_32\_\_\_</u>. Those tomatoes had <u>\_\_\_33\_\_\_</u> that reminded me of the ones my uncle used to grow when I was a child. Nowadays supermarket tomatoes <u>\_\_\_34\_\_\_</u> perfect but taste of water. Nobody’s going to have a <u>\_\_\_35\_\_\_</u> memory of those. It’s a surprise they haven’t managed to grow square ones so that they can <u>\_\_\_36\_\_\_</u> them easily. Mario’s wine may have been cloudy and come out of an old bottle, but it was <u>\_\_\_37\_\_\_</u>.

It’s good to eat things at the correct time, when they’re <u>\_\_\_38\_\_\_</u>, and as close as possible to where they were <u>\_\_\_39\_\_\_</u>. What Mario had <u>\_\_\_40\_\_\_</u> us was the taste of the Garfagnana.

21\. A. waited B. met C. camped D. stayed

22\. A. making B. searching C. squeezing D. feeling

23\. A. customer B. neighbor C. relative D. passenger

24\. A. lend B. send C. bring D. show

25\. A. choice B. comment C. promise D. gesture

26\. A. worried B. moved C. thrilled D. bored

27\. A. simple B. real C. shiny D. fun

28\. A. more B. good C. new D. easy

29\. A. sympathetic to B. thankful for C. cautious about D. interested in

30\. A. tried B. sold C. returned D. mixed

31\. A. unnecessary B. uncertain C. unwise D. unusual

32\. A. appearance B. quality C. origin D. price

33\. A. size B. shape C. color D. taste

34\. A. smell B. look C. become D. work

35\. A. happy B. vivid C. short D. vague

36\. A. clean B. check C. count D. pack

37\. A. perfect B. useful C. convenient D. familiar

38\. A. on view B. on sale C. in season D. in need

39\. A. finished B. stored C. found D. grown

40\. A. cooked B. given C. bought D. told

**第二节(共10小题:每小题1.5分，满分15分)**

阅读下面短文，在空白处填入1个适当的单词或括号内单词的正确形式。

For thousands of years, people have told fables (寓言) <u>\_\_\_41\_\_\_</u> (teach) a lesson or to pass on wisdom. Fables were part of the oral tradition of many early cultures, and the well-known Aesop’s fables date to the <u>\_\_\_42\_\_\_</u> (six) century, B. C. Yet, the form of the fable still has values today, <u>\_\_\_43\_\_\_</u> Rachel Carson says in “A Fable for Tomorrow”

Carson uses a simple, direct style common to fable. In fact, her style and tone (口吻) are seemingly directed at children. “There was once a town in the heart of America, <u>\_\_\_44\_\_\_</u> all life seemed to enjoy peaceful existence with is surroundings,” her fable begins, <u>\_\_\_45\_\_\_</u> (borrow) some familiar words from many age-old fables. Behind the simple style, however, is a serious message <u>\_\_\_46\_\_\_</u> (intend) for everyone.

<u>\_\_\_47\_\_\_</u> (difference) from traditional fables, Carson’s story ends with an accusation instead of a moral. She warns of the environmental dangers facing society, and she teaches that people must take responsibility <u>\_\_\_48\_\_\_</u> saving their environment.

The themes of taditional fables often deal with simple truths about everyday life. However, Cason’s theme is a more weighty <u>\_\_\_49\_\_\_</u> (warn) about environmental destruction. Carson proves that a simple lyric form that has been passed down through the ages can still <u>\_\_\_\_50\_\_\_\_</u> (employ) today to draw attention to important truths.

**第四部分 写作(共两节，满分35分)**

**第一节 短文改错(共10小题;每小题1分，满分10分)**

51\. 假定英语课上老师要求同桌之间交换修改作文，请你修以你同桌写的以下作文。文中共有10处语言错误，每句中最多有两处。每处错误仅涉及一个单词的增加、删除或修改。

增加:在缺词处加一个漏字符号(∧), 并在其下面写出该加的词。

删除：把多余的词用斜线(\\划掉。

修改：在错的词下划一横线，并在该词下面写出修改后的词。

注意：1.每处错误及其修改均仅限一词；

2\. 只允许修改10处, 多者(从第11处起)不计分。

I used to afraid of insects, but last Friday’s biology class make a big change in me. In that class, Miss Zhao, our biology teacher, showed we insects on stamps. The bees, butterfly and many other insects looked lovely and beautifully on the stamps. Miss Zhao told us the names of the insects or described their living habits. She even played some recordings of their singing, what was fun. Now, I’ve come to love those of small living things. In the evening, when I take the walk in the school garden, the singing of insects become more meaningful to me.

**第二节 书面表达(满分25分)**

52\. 你们学校正举办主题为“用英文讲中国故事”的征文活动。请你以一位中国历史人物为题写一篇短文投稿，内容包括：

1.人物简介及事迹；

2\. 意义或启示。

注意：

1\. 词数100左右；

2\. 题目已为你写好。

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
