**2025年普通高等学校招生全国统一考试（天津卷）**

**英语笔试 （第二次）**

1\. — Let me try, captain! I won’t let you down.

—OK, Paul! .

A. You got me wrong B. It is your time to shine

C You must be kidding D. Mind your own business

2\. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ virtual reality becomes more accessible, many schools are setting up virtual science labs.

A. As B. Until C. Unless D. Although

3\. The Stone Age is the name given to the time over 2,000,000 years ago, life was very different from today.

A. why B. which C. when D. where

4\. Deng Jiaxian was one of the 23 scientists who awarded for their extraordinary contributions to China’s “two bombs, one satellite” project.

A. was B. were C. has D. have

5\. The children are encouraged to follow their natural , and learn about what interests them.

A. curiosity B. balance C. defence D. limitation

6\. Engineers in the UK are going to build a new satellite to track solar storms.

A. designed B. designing C. to design D. having designed

7\. — With my brother’s help, I finally completed my chemistry project.

— Congratulations! .

A. Loose lips sink ships B. Don’t jump in with two feet

C. Don’t be a wet blanket D. Two heads are better than one

8\. The Song Dynasty the introduction of *jiaozi*, which is supposedly the world’s first paper money.

A. has seen B. had seen C. sees D. saw

9\. With robots various industrial tasks, factories have increased production efficiency.

A. to perform B. to be performed C. performing D. being performed

10\. Knowing your weakness lies is one of the first and most challenging steps in learning to manage yourself.

A. that B. what C. how D. where

11\. There are no displays in the art museum and exhibitions change all the time.

A. permanent B. temporary C. elegant D. alternative

12\. New measures are to improve English translations in public places in China.

A. at rest B. in place C. under pressure D. beyond reach

13\. A family day out is an opportunity to work and school and spend quality time together.

A. put aside B. pass on C. take up D. give away

14\. No reader remove a book from the library without permission.

A. would B. might C. shall D. need

15\. There are many things teens should when deciding what colleges to apply to.

A. set in motion B. get under control

C. bring to an end D. take into consideration

Life is a road full of minor inconveniences and major setbacks, which everyone faces, <u>\_\_\_\_16\_\_\_\_</u> wealth or social rank. That is why optimism, the ability to see the <u>\_\_\_\_17\_\_\_\_</u> side of every negative situation, is key to success.

What made optimism so meaningful to me was when I <u>\_\_\_\_18\_\_\_\_</u> the A team of the basketball club for the upcoming season. I had always been the starting point guard, and my <u>\_\_\_\_19\_\_\_\_</u> on the A team was something I took for granted. However, I only made the B team, <u>\_\_\_\_20\_\_\_\_</u> I worked my hardest. I didn’t understand why until I saw the new A team, crowded with players that all <u>\_\_\_\_21\_\_\_\_</u> me.

I had to give the B team a chance. But to my <u>\_\_\_\_22\_\_\_\_</u>, the play level was much lower than what I was used to. I lost the drive I’d had before and gradually became <u>\_\_\_\_23\_\_\_\_</u>.

One day I came across a social media post of another basketball team, whose point guard was much more <u>\_\_\_\_24\_\_\_\_</u> than her teammates. When her teammates made multiple mistakes <u>\_\_\_\_\_25\_\_\_\_\_</u>, which cost them several points, I expected her to be upset, but <u>\_\_\_\_\_26\_\_\_\_\_</u>, she patted her teammates on the back and comforted them. As I watched her more, I noticed that she led her team, always <u>\_\_\_\_\_27\_\_\_\_\_</u> and uplifting her teammates.

The realization hit me like lightning. What I thought was a <u>\_\_\_\_\_28\_\_\_\_\_</u> turned out to be a valuable opportunity, presenting a rare chance to develop <u>\_\_\_\_\_29\_\_\_\_\_</u>. So, I started using my <u>\_\_\_\_\_30\_\_\_\_\_</u> to be a leader for my team. When our coach needed a(n) <u>\_\_\_\_\_31\_\_\_\_\_</u>, I was the first to raise my hand. When my teammates needed help with a skill, I <u>\_\_\_\_\_32\_\_\_\_\_</u> taught them over and over again. My effort paid off as I <u>\_\_\_\_\_33\_\_\_\_\_</u> remarkably not just as a player, but as a person — something I could have never achieved on the A team.

When facing challenges in life, some people <u>\_\_\_\_\_34\_\_\_\_\_</u> them with optimism, while others tend to complain. Optimism is a palette, with which you can paint your own light in the darkness, shelter in a storm, and most importantly, a better <u>\_\_\_\_\_35\_\_\_\_\_</u> of yourself!

16\. A. regardless of B. due to C. but for D. apart from

17\. A. commercial B. positive C. crucial D. practical

18\. A. looked back on B. gave in to C. put up with D. tried out for

19\. A. position B. focus C. comment D. impression

20\. A. as if B. in case C. now that D. even though

21\. A. ran into B. agreed with C. towered over D. saw through

22\. A. relief B. confusion C. amazement D. disappointment

23\. A. unmotivated B. disqualified C. determined D. engaged

24\. A. amused B. advanced C. emotional D. familiar

25\. A. to a degree B. as a rule C. in a row D. at a distance

26\. A. instead B. meanwhile C. otherwise D. furthermore

27\. A. evaluating B. interrupting C. encouraging D. interviewing

28\. A. trick B. misfortune C. mistake D. conflict

29\. A. reputation B. innovation C. leadership D. friendship

30\. A. privacy B. experience C. schedule D. occupation

31\. A. example B. announcement C. competitor D. donation

32\. A. nervously B. patiently C. gratefully D. hesitantly

33\. A. protested B. resigned C. developed D. emerged

34\. A. create B. approach C. influence D. perform

35\. A. appearance B. shape C. identity D. version

**A**

Welcome to our university’s Botanic Garden — plan your visit, and find out about what we do!

You can either pay at the Ticket Office on arrival, or book your tickets online. Please note: Tickets cannot be used on any date other than the one they were booked for and are non- refundable (不可退款的).

**Guidelines for Visitors**

The Garden is an active research facility and a living museum with a collection of over 8,000 plants.

Please bear in mind some simple rules for your visit:

Only trained working dogs are permitted to enter the Garden.

Children must stay with a grown-up at all times.

Stick strictly to the paths and lawns (草坪).

Do not climb the trees.

Please do not pick any part of a growing plant.

Cycling and ball games are not permitted in the Garden.

**Guided Tours in the Garden**

With over 8,000 plant species and a wonderful range of gardens and plantings to enjoy, there is something for everyone at the Garden, and many different aspects to appeal to a wide variety of interest groups.

◆ Free Drop-in Weekend Tours

Enjoy a free-of-charge Garden tour with one of our expert guides, taking in the seasonal highlights of the Garden.

Our weekend tours are available every Sunday at 11:30 a. m. and 2p. m. throughout the year. During the months of January and February these tours focus on the Winter Garden, Snowdrops and general winter interest.

The free tours last one hour and start from the Fountain, near the MainLawn.

**Group Tours**

Our experienced volunteer guides will help you enjoy the highlights and provide some of the background history and development of this amazing garden.

These 90-minute, pre-bookable tours are ideal for adult groups wishing to make the most of their visit to our 40-acre site. Please visit the Group Guided Tours page for more details.

36\. What should a potential visitor take note of before booking a ticket to the Garden?

A. Whether one can afford the visit.

B. Whether the Garden website is accessible.

C. Whether one can accept the ticket-booking policy.

D. Whether the tickets are still available at the Ticket Office.

37\. A kid is allowed to visit the Garden when they are .

A. well trained B. with a bicycle

C. accompanied by an adult D. guided by their working dog

38\. What behaviour is acceptable in the Garden?

A. Picking a flower. B. Climbing a tree.

C. Playing a ball game. D. Walking on the lawns.

39\. Where do the free drop-in weekend tours start?

A. Snowdrops. B. The Fountain.

C. The Main Lawn. D. The Winter Garden.

40\. What special service can visitors enjoy on the group tour?

A. The company of professional guides.

B. The explanation of how the Garden works.

C. The extended visit in and around the Garden.

D. The introduction to the birth and growth of the Garden.

**B**

My great grandmother received the dollhouse (玩具小屋) from a family friend back in the late 1800s. It was then passed down from generation to generation. I was seven when I discovered it underneath the tree on Christmas morning.

In our house, Mom set up a sewing area. I sat at her sewing machine, my feet barely reaching the presser foot. Mom bent over me, her hands on mine, gently guiding small bits of cloth under the needle to create dollhouse bedding. She also taught me to make mini-blankets. With a little paint and glue, Mom demonstrated that anything could be turned into dollhouse furniture. I learnt to view the world as a place of possibility. I spent hours of my girlhood sitting before my dollhouse, telling made-up stories, and creating miniatures (缩微模型). But eventually school activities took over, and the dollhouse was moved to the attic (阁楼).

Over the next 40 years, the storytelling skills I’d practiced with the dollhouse grew into novel writing skills, and I developed a career as an author. One day, after hours of working on my fourth book, I took a break by surfing the Internet and happened to notice the beautiful dollhouses people posted on social media. They reminded me of mine. I went to the attic, brought it back to my room and started updating it.

During the mindless hours of sewing and furnishing (布置家具), I listened to audiobooks about the history of dollhouses, learning that they were not invented for play. There’s a long, rich history of people in hardship turning to dollhouses to find comfort. They weren’t produced as toys until mass production became standard after 1945. This inspired me to create a novel where art saves the day.

The truth was I myself needed art to save the day. Mom was then slipping away from me owing to progressive memory loss. The only topic we could discuss with any genuine joy was the update of the dollhouse. She loved retelling its history — those old memories. Mom didn’t find it strange at all that her 50-year-old daughter was updating the dollhouse. She just thought it fun and beautiful. And it was. It was a world where Mom and I were at our best together.

41\. What did the author’s mother teach her to do?

A. To sew and create miniatures.

B. To add imaginary figures to the dollhouse.

C. To make up fairy tales set in the dollhouse.

D. To do oil paintings and glue them onto the little walls.

42\. Why did the author decide to update the dollhouse decades later?

A. She intended to follow the trend on social media.

B. She was eager to start a new career as a toy designer.

C. She felt the urge to compete with other dollhouse makers.

D. She was inspired by people sharing their dollhouses online.

43\. What did the author learn about dollhouses from the audiobooks?

A. They were initially created for play.

B People once sought comfort in them.

C. Rich people sold them for money during difficult times.

D. A uniform standard for their production was set in 1945.

44\. What role did the dollhouse play in strengthening the emotional ties between the author and her aging mother?

A. A reminder of their childhood dreams. B. A mirror of the eventful family history.

C. A tool to bring back good old memories. D. A means to improve her mother’s memory.

45 What would be the best title for the passage?

A. The Dollhouse: A Lifelong Toy B. Growing up with the Dollhouse

C. The Dollhouse: More Than Just a Toy D. Dollhouse Making and Novel Writing

**C**

All animals take in oxygen from the air they breathe in, and release CO₂ from their blood when breathing out. Most mammals (哺乳动物) can’t directly detect oxygen levels in the blood supplied to their tissues. Instead, they rely on the rising level of CO₂ in their blood to signal that they might need to take a breath. But a recent study published in Science suggests seals (海豹) can sense the amount of oxygen in the blood, and change their diving behavior in response.

To find out if oxygen levels affected seal behavior Professor McKnight at the University of St. Andrews and his colleagues created a special section in a pool where young seals were held. In one corner, there was a breathing chamber (呼吸室), where they were sheltered from the rain and the wind.

The breathing chamber was surrounded by panels that prevented surface swimming, yet swimming below the surface for about 200 feet would give the seals access to a feeder where they could eat as much fish as they liked. Once the seals got familiar with the setup, the researchers started to gradually change the composition of the air in the breathing chamber, increasing or reducing the levels of oxygen and CO₂ to see an effect on their behavior. Sure enough: the higher the level of oxygen, the longer the seals stayed at the feeder.

The finding suggests that seals don’t just physically respond to oxygen levels by changing their heart rate or breathing, but that they are sufficiently aware of them to change their behavior. This ability would put seals in a class beyond any land mammals that have been tested. Since oxygen levels on land remain stable, humans don’t seem to have evolved (演化) to notice low blood oxygen levels, sometimes not even when they’re about to pass out in free-diving.

Therefore, in free-diving without oxygen tanks, accidents are quite common. Our reliance on sensing CO₂ levels in our blood instead of oxygen may be to blame. Actually, this is a perfectly reasonable strategy on land, where growing CO₂ tends to signal breathing issues. But when holding our breath during diving, relying on CO₂ levels is risky, especially on repeated dives. Because every time we surface and breathe in, our sensitivity to CO₂ is decreased, even if its levels are already high, and this increases the chance that a person will, without awareness, pass out before they get to the surface.

46\. What do most mammals rely on to determine when to take a breath?

A. The growing amount of CO₂ in their blood.

B. The rising level of oxygen in their lungs.

C. The intensity of their physical activity.

D. The blood supply to body tissues.

47\. When would the seals stay at the feeder for a longer period of time?

A. When they needed to take in more food at the feeder.

B. When the oxygen level in the chamber grew higher.

C. When they familiarized themselves with the setup.

D. When the CO₂ level in the chamber was raised.

48\. What results in humans’ inability to notice low oxygen levels in their blood?

A. The unstable CO₂ levels in the air.

B. Their lack of attention to breathing.

C. The constant oxygen levels on land.

D. Their functionally changeable heart rate.

49\. Why do accidents often occur when divers go free-diving?

A. Their breath cannot be held long enough.

B. They cannot adjust the consumption of oxygen.

C. They may fail to notice rising CO₂ levels soon enough.

D. Their breathing organs stop working properly underwater.

50\. Which statement is probably supported by McKnight’s seal research?

A. Seals have evolved to survive in low oxygen environments.

B. Seals are quick to sense oxygen levels and act accordingly.

C. Seals can maintain their heart rate even with low blood oxygen levels.

D. Seals are more sensitive to changes in the environment than other mammals.

**D**

Science serves as a powerful tool for unlocking the mysteries of the universe but understanding its limitations is essential for its effective application. There are occasions where I have used the handle of a knife as a hammer (锤子), but the result would have been better if I’d had a more suitable tool at hand. As far as science goes, it is really good at testing things that are testable, but not so for those that are not.

We can do, and have done, an impressive amount with our brains. But there are limits. Sometimes these limits go away if we keep at it for long enough — we just need better facilities and experiments to get the answer. Breaking new ground in modern science this way can be costly. Next-generation supercomputers or incredibly large telescopes are expensive, yet these may be required to find answers to some of the unsolved mysteries of the universe.

Sometimes the limits we encounter in trying to unlock the nature of the universe are cognitive (认知的). Think about this: human DNA is only about 1.2 percent different from that of chimps (黑猩猩). Chimps are smart, no question. But could you teach them advanced mathematics? What if our DNA were another 1.2 percent further evolved than it is? What might our brains be capable of then? The level of abstract thinking might be unimaginable.

Sometimes the limits we hit are fundamental. There are laws of nature we may never be able to understand, however advanced our brains might become. There are experiments we might never be able to perform. We may never be able to test what caused the universe to be created, and what caused the cause of the universe being created. This is where science may never break through.

For something to be considered scientific, it must, by definition, be testable. There is a problem here: it may not need to be testable right now, but it must be testable at some point in the future by experiment. If an idea is untestable, that doesn’t mean it is wrong. It means it is untestable for now. These untestable ideas also happen to be some of the most interesting ones, probably because they’ve puzzled humanity for centuries.

51\. Why does the author mention “knife” and “hammer” in Paragraph 1?

A. To demonstrate how tools can be used creatively.

B. To highlight consequences of using a wrong tool.

C. To show the necessity of keeping a handy tool within reach.

D. To stress the need for the right tool to achieve desired results.

52\. What is often required in breaking new ground in science?

A. Broader science education. B. More advanced facilities for experiments.

C. Deeper understanding of the brain power. D. More investment in next-generation scientists.

53\. How does the author assess human beings in terms of their cognitive capacity?

A. They are just 2.4% away from true abstract thinking.

B. They are slightly smarter than other intelligent beings.

C. They are yet to evolve further to learn more about the universe.

D. They are good at solving problems with advanced mathematics.

54\. What message does Paragraph 4 convey?

A. Some puzzles about the universe are way beyond scientific exploration.

B. Experimental research lays solid foundations for space technology.

C. Boundaries of science can be pushed back with determined efforts.

D. Limitations of science may result from insufficient testing.

55\. What has the author added to the definition of a scientific idea?

A. Correct ideas are testable. B. Untestable ideas can be true.

C. Some scientific ideas may never be testable. D. An idea must be testable to be seen as correct.

**阅读表达**

In the morning, I write this to-do list:

1\. Go to the bank.

2\. Get a nice haircut.

3\. Pick up my academic statement from college.

4\. Submit my poems.

I think, “That’s enough for one day.”

Up until a few years ago, I didn’t aim to be anywhere. And in order to be nowhere, one does not need a to-do list as a guide. Focusing only on the most pressing matter in front of me was enough. Let the next urgent moment think for me.

My mother had tried to teach me about planning my day ever since I was 10. But I never practiced it until I was 25 and done with college. That’s when I <u>awoke to</u> the fact that I didn’t want to waste any more time. I live in Nigeria, where life and success can be difficult. There seem to be many roads to failure here.

I grew up seeing my mother firmly in charge of her day. She knew — and still knows — where she needed to be at every moment, in every detail. She may not be good at singing, acting, or sports. But she is excellent at planning. Every day she writes a list. I never understood why she had to write down a list that consists of items you can easily hold in your mind. “Your to-do list is like your second mind,” she told my younger self. “If you ever feel lost or overwhelmed, you consult your second mind.”

I didn’t understand what she meant by “a second mind” until I seemed to lose my first mind in my everyday life. Sometimes, it seems as though it’s the rainy season in my mind, flooded with confused and distracting thoughts that lead nowhere. I need a second mind — now!

As I sit in the barbershop awaiting my nice haircut, a friend asks me, “What’s next?”

“Pick up my academic statement from college,” I say. “Then submit my poems.”

“You’ve got it figured out like a granny,” he jokes.

“No,” I say, “like my mother.”

56\. Why did the author believe he didn’t need a to-do list before he turned 25?(no more than 10 words)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

57\. What does the underlined phrase mean?(no more than 3 words)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

58\. What kind of person is the author’s mother?(no more than 10words)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

59\. When did the author turn to “a second mind” for help?(no more than 10 words)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

60\. How have you benefited from some advice given by a family member? Please explain with an example.(no more than 20 words)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

61\. 假如你是晨光中学的李津，你在宇航爱好者论坛“Space Awaits”看到一则英文讨论帖：一张记录地球文明的光盘将随探测器飞向外太空，光盘拟收录具有代表性的音像资料。根据各国网友的提名，图中六项人气较高。请你根据以下提示用英文跟帖：

（1）对提名的项目进行概括性评论；

（2）从中选取或另行推介一个你认为最值得收录的项目，并说明理由。

<table style="width:85%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 66%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="text-align: left;">Space Awaits</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="2" style="text-align: left;"><strong>Li</strong> <strong>Jin</strong></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Posted on June 8th, 2025 4:30 p.m.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><strong>此处不能答题</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



注意：

（1）词数不少于100；

（2）可适当加入细节，使内容充实、行文连贯。

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
